Primary features

Aerialway
Aerialways cover forms of transport for people or goods using aerial wires including cable-cars, chair-lifts and drag-lifts. See Aerialway for an introduction.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
aerialway	 cable_car	Way	cablecar or tramway. Just one or two large cars. The cable forms a loop, but the cars do not loop around, they just move up and down on their own side.	Mapping-Features-Aerialway.png	
CH Furtschellas aerial tram.jpg
aerialway	 chair_lift	Way	chairlift. Looped cable with a series of single chairs (typically seating two or four people, but can be more). Exposed to the open air. This implies oneway=yes. Any two-way chairlifts should be tagged oneway=no.	Chair lift rendering.png	Silver Queen Chair, CBMR.jpg
aerialway	 drag_lift	Way	 An overhead tow-line for skiers and riders. A T-bar lift, button lift, or more simple looped rope drag lifts, or loops of wire with handles to grab. See also aerialway=t-bar, aerialway=j-bar and aerialway=platter.	Chair lift rendering.png	
Picswiss BE-96-18 Skilift auf dem Leiterli.jpg
aerialway	 gondola	Way	gondola lift. Many cars on a looped cable.	Chair lift rendering.png	
Linbana kolmården cable car.jpg
aerialway	 goods	Way	 A lift for goods. Passenger transport is usually not allowed	Aerialway goods.png	
Materialseilbahn.jpg
aerialway	 j-bar	Way	J-bar lift. A type of aerialway=drag_lift. Like t-bar but just on one side. This automatically implies oneway=yes.		
Coldspgs j bar lift.jpg
aerialway	 magic_carpet	Way	magic carpet. A type of ski lift. This automatically implies oneway=yes.		
Magic carpet uphill loaded P1437.jpeg
aerialway	 mixed_lift	Way	 A mixed lift, containing both gondolas and chairs.	Chair lift rendering.png	
Cgd panoramabahn.jpg
aerialway	 platter	Way	Platter lift. A type of aerialway=drag_lift. Similar to a t-bar, but with a disc instead of a bar. Single-person only. This automatically implies oneway=yes.		
Tellerliftbügel.jpg
aerialway	 pylon	Node	 A pylon supporting the aerialway cable.		
09 Sommet TS.JPG
aerialway	 rope_tow	Way	Rope tow. A type of aerialway=drag_lift. This automatically implies oneway=yes.		
Rope tow overview.jpeg
aerialway	 station	Node Area	 A station, where passengers can enter and/or leave the aerialway		
WinterArmenia3.JPG
aerialway	 t-bar	Way	T-bar lift. A type of aerialway=drag_lift. This automatically implies oneway=yes.		
Orczyk.jpg
aerialway	 user defined	Node Way	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Aeroway
Mainly relating to aerodromes, airfields other ground facilities to support the operation of airplanes and helicopters. See Aeroways for an introduction to the mapping these features.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
aeroway	 aerodrome	Node Area	 An Aerodrome (UK), Airport (US)	
Aerodrome.png
Flemingfield looking north.JPG
aeroway	 apron	Area	 A place where planes are parked.	Osmarender apron.png	
800px-HFX Airport 4.jpg
aeroway	 gate	Node	 Used to mark the gate numbers at the airports.	
Rendering-aeroway=gate.JPG
Edinburgh Airport gate lounge.jpg
aeroway	 helipad	Node Area	 Helicopter start/landing pad	
Helipad.p.16.png
Altena - Lenneuferstraße 17 ies.jpg
aeroway	 hangar	Node Area	 Large airport buildings for housing aircraft		
Aircraft hangar.jpg
aeroway	 runway	Way Area	 A strip of land kept clear and set aside for aeroplanes to take off from and land on. (Other languages)	Rendering-aeroway runway.png	
Bogrunway.JPG
aeroway	 taxiway	Way	 Where airplanes manouevre between runways and parking areas.	Rendering-aeroway taxiway.png	Planes in Chicago - 24.JPG
aeroway	 terminal	Node Area	 Airport passenger building	
Rendering-aeroway-terminal-mapnik.png
Flughafen Frankfurt am Main - Gate A - Check-In 0212.jpg
aeroway	 windsock	Node	 Used to mark the position of a windsock.		Vetrný rukáv, Cerné Voderady.jpg
aeroway	 User defined	Node Way	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Amenity
Used to map facilities for visitors and residents: toilets, telephones, banks, pharmacies (to buy medicines), schools. See Amenities for an introduction.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
Sustenance
amenity	 bar	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place selling alcoholic drinks. See description of amenity=bar and amenity=pub for distinction between bar and pub	
Bar.p.20.png
Bar MXCT.JPG
amenity	 bbq	Mf node.png	 A public grill for cooking meat or vegetables, most typically to eat outdoors. Use fuel=* to specify source of heating. For campfires and firepits, use leisure=firepit		
Grillplatzusa.jpg
amenity	 biergarten	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 An outdoor area in which beer, other drinks, and local food are served.	
Biergarten.p.16.png
Biergarten.JPG
amenity	 cafe	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A cafe. The kind of food served can be tagged with cuisine=* and diet=*.	
OSB cafe.png
Klagenfurt Wörthersee Strandbad Cafe Sunset Bar 11102008 65.jpg
amenity	 drinking_water	Mf node.png	 A place to obtain potable water to drink.	
Food drinkingtap.p.20.png
Basler Trinkwasser 1341.jpg
amenity	 fast_food	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Fast food restaurant (see also amenity=restaurant). The kind of food served can be tagged with cuisine=* and diet=*.	
Fast food.png
Burger king kamen osm.jpg
amenity	 food_court	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 An area with several different restaurant food counters and a shared eating area. Commonly found in malls, airports, etc.		
Coca Cola Oase Centro Germany View From Above.jpg
amenity	 ice_cream	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Ice cream shop or ice cream parlour. A place that sells ice cream and frozen yoghurt over the counter		
Shop-ice cream.jpeg
amenity	 pub	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place selling beer and other alcoholic drinks; may also provide food or accommodation (UK). See description of amenity=bar and amenity=pub for distinction between bar and pub	
Amenity-pub.png
Pub.jpg
amenity	 restaurant	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Restaurant (not fast food, see amenity=fast_food). The kind of food served can be tagged with cuisine=* and diet=*.	
Rendering-amenity-restaurant-mapnik.png
Caprice Restaurant.JPG
Education
amenity	 college	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A college campus or buildings	Mf node.png : College.png 
Mf area.png : Rendering-area-amenity-college.png	
Cambridge Regional College main entrance.jpg
amenity	 kindergarten	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 For children too young for a regular school (also known as playschool or nursery school).		
Story Time.jpg
amenity	 library	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A public library (municipal, university, …) to borrow books from.	
Library.p.20.png
Guantanamo captives' library a.jpg
amenity	 school	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 School and grounds	Mf node.png : Icon-amenity school.png 
Mf area.png : Rendering-area-amenity-school.png	
Williamstown school.jpg
amenity	 university	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A university campus	Mf node.png : Icon-amenity university.png 
Mf area.png : Rendering-area-amenity-university.png	
Brock University campus.JPG
Transportation
amenity	 bicycle_parking	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Parking for bicycles		
Bicycle-parking.jpg
amenity	 bicycle_rental	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Rent a bicycle	
Rental bicycle.p.20.png
Bicycle-rental.jpg
amenity	 bus_station	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Has been replaced by public_transport=station.	
Bus station.n.16.png
Manchester Piccadilly Bus Station.jpg
amenity	 car_rental	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Rent a car		
Hertz car rental office Livonia Michigan.JPG
amenity	 car_sharing	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Share a car	
Car share.p.16.png
U Car Share Shattuck Hearst.jpg
amenity	 car_wash	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Wash a car		
Wuppertal - Friedrich-Engels-Allee 130 02 ies.jpg
amenity	 ev_charging	Mf node.png	 Electric vehicle charging facility. Don't use, amenity=charging_station is preferred.	
Ev charging.png
Evpost.jpg
amenity	 charging_station	Mf node.png	 Charging facility for electric vehicles	
Charging station.svg
Evpost.jpg
amenity	 ferry_terminal	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Ferry terminal/stop. A place where people/cars/etc. can board and leave a ferry.		
Ferry Reet.jpg
amenity	 fuel	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Petrol station; gas station; marine fuel; … Streets to petrol stations are often tagged highway=service.	
Fuel.p.16.png
Preem Karlskrona.jpg
amenity	 grit_bin	Mf node.png	 A container that holds grit or a mixture of salt and grit.	
Grid bin 32.png
Grit bin.jpg
amenity	 parking	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Car park. Nodes and areas (without access tag) will get a parking symbol. Areas will be colored. Streets on car parking are often tagged highway=service and service=parking_aisle.	
Parking.p.16.png
P3030027ParkingLot wb.jpg
amenity	 parking_entrance	Mf node.png	 An entrance or exit to an underground or multi-storey parking facility. Group multiple parking entrances together with a relation using the tags  type=site and site=parking.Do not mix with amenity=parking.		
3690668043 88a731e3e0 b.jpg
amenity	 parking_space	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A single parking space. Group multiple parking spaces together with a relation using the tags  type=site and site=parking.Do not mix with amenity=parking.		
138081166 2a56d66c27 b.jpg
amenity	 taxi	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where taxis wait for passengers.		
Amenity taxi picture-Hong Kong Shatin Taxi Stand.jpg
Financial
amenity	 atm	Mf node.png	 an ATM or cash point	
Atm2.p.16.png
ATM 750x1300.jpg
amenity	 bank	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 a bank (for a bank that also has an ATM, it is preferred that a separate node for each ATM is added)	
Bank2.p.16.png
Dscf1401-800.jpg
amenity	 bureau_de_change	Mf node.png	 Bureau de change, currency exchange, Wechsel, cambio - a place to change foreign bank notes and travellers cheques	
Bureau de change.svg
Bureau de change electronic sign.jpg
Healthcare
amenity	 baby_hatch	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where you can drop a baby anonymously for adoption		
Babybox - venkovní strana.jpg
amenity	 clinic	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A medium-sized medical facility or health centre.		
Bristol , Central Health Clinic - geograph.org.uk - 1360619.jpg
amenity	 dentist	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A dentist practice / surgery.		
Military dentists in Guatemala.jpg
amenity	 doctors	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A doctors' practice / surgery.		
Doctors stethoscope 2.jpg
amenity	 hospital	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Often used in conjunction with emergency=* to note whether or not the hospital has emergency facilities (A&E (brit.) or ER (am.))	
Rendering-amenity hospital.png
Guantanamo captive's hospital beds -c.jpg
amenity	 nursing_home	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A home for disabled or elderly persons who need permanent care. See social_facility=* for more details.		
Hora Svate Kateriny - nursing home.jpg
amenity	 pharmacy	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Pharmacy
dispensing=yes
dispensing=no or omitted	Pharmacy dispencing.png : dispensing="yes" 
Pharmacy nondispensing.png : dispensing="no" or omitted	
Boots The Chemist At Gunwharf Quays.jpg
amenity	 social_facility	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A facility that provides social services.		
Salvation Army Citadel, Hill Street , Newport - geograph.org.uk - 1585015.jpg
amenity	 veterinary	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where a veterinary surgeon (vet) practices.	
Vetlogo.svg
Veterinary Surgeon.jpg
Entertainment, Arts & Culture
amenity	 arts_centre	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A venue where a variety of arts are performed or conducted	
Palette.gif
Alhamra Art Centre.JPG
amenity	 brothel	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 An establishment specifically dedicated to prostitution		
Walletjes 001.jpg
amenity	 cinema	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where films are shown (US: movie theater)	
Rendering-amenity-cinema-mapnik.png
Palace cinéma beaumont.JPG
amenity	 community_centre	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place mostly used for local events and festivities.		
Greasby Community Centre.JPG
amenity	 fountain	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A fountain for cultural / decorational / recreational purposes.		
Fountain at Milan citadel.JPG
amenity	 nightclub	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place to drink and dance (nightclub). The german word is "Disco" or "Discothek". Please don't confuse this with the german "Nachtclub" wich is most likely amenity=stripclub.	
Nightclub.png
Gatecrasher.jpg
amenity	 planetarium	Mf node.png Mf way.png Mf area.png	 A planetarium.		
Planetarium.jpg

amenity	 social_centre	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place for free and not-for-profit activities.		
Governor Hotel, Rotary Club of Portland plaque.JPG
amenity	 stripclub	Mf node.png	 A place that offers striptease or lapdancing (for sexual services use amenity=brothel).		
Stripclub.jpg
amenity	 studio	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 TV radio or recording studio	
Studio.png
DOUG.jpg
amenity	 swingerclub	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A club where people meet to have a party and group sex.		
Swingerclub Cäsars Palace. Spröckhövel.JPG
amenity	 theatre	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A theatre or opera house	
Theatre.p.20.png
Sydney opera.jpg
Others
amenity	 animal_boarding	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A facility where you, paying a fee, can bring your animal for a limited period of time (e.g. for holidays)	
Dog boarding icon.png
Holmbyre Cattery - geograph.org.uk - 167661.jpg
amenity	 animal_shelter	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A shelter that recovers animals in trouble	
Dog shelter icon.png
Deer shelter icon.png
Kennel 2.jpg
amenity	 bench	Mf node.png	 A bench to sit down and relax a bit	
Lavicka.png
Bench.jpg
amenity	 clock	Mf node.png	 A public visible clock		
Houses Of Parliament Clock Tower (Big Ben).jpg
amenity	 courthouse	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where justice is dispensed	
Amenity court.p.20.png
Franklinctycrthsapalchicola01.jpg
amenity	 coworking_space	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where people can go to work (might require a fee); not limited to a single employer		
Coworking Space in Berlin.jpg
amenity	 crematorium	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where dead human bodies are burnt		
Bushbury Crematorium - geograph.org.uk - 259876.jpg
amenity	 crypt	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 It is a stone chamber or vault beneath the floor of a burial vault possibly containing sarcophagi, coffins or relics.		
Dresden-Hofkirche-Gruft.jpg
amenity	 dojo	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Training place for any of the Japanese arts.		
Noma Dojo, 2006.JPG
amenity	 embassy	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 An embassy	
Embassy.png
Bulgarian embassy in Paris.jpg
amenity	 fire_station	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A fire station	
Firestation.p.16.png
Fire station.jpg
amenity	 firepit	Node Area	 Deprecated. For campfires and firepits, see Tag:leisure=firepit		
Camp site.jpg
amenity	 grave_yard	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A (smaller) place of burial, often you'll find a church nearby. Large places should be landuse=cemetery instead.		
Odenbuell Nordstrand St Vinzenz IMGP2940 wp crop.jpg
amenity	 gym	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 It's recommended to not use this tag as it's ambiguous. See leisure=sport_centre or sport=gymnastics		
amenity	 hunting_stand	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A hunting stand		
A rised hide closed quadrat.jpg
amenity	 marketplace	Mf way.png Mf area.png	 A place where trade is regulated, e.g. a square.		
Marche berlin002.jpg
amenity	 place_of_worship	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A church, mosque, or temple, etc. Note that you also need religion=*, usually denomination=* and preferably name=* as well as amenity=place_of_worship. See the article for details.	
Place of worship symbols.png
Place of worship.png
amenity	 police	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A police station	
Police.p.16.png
Ploizeiautos Davidwache.jpg
amenity	 post_box	Mf node.png	 Alternative mail-carriers can be tagged via operator=*	
Amenity-post box.png
Post Box.JPG
amenity	 post_office	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Post office building with postal services	
Amenity-post office.png
100px-Pošta Praha 025.jpg
amenity	 prison	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A prison	
Amenity prison.p.20.png
Osaka keimusho.jpg
amenity	 public_building	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A generic public building. Don't use! See building=public		
amenity	 ranger_station	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 National Park Visitor Headquarters	
NPS ranger station.svg
Talkeetna Ranger Station.jpg
amenity	 register_office	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Register office. See also office=register		
amenity	 recycling	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Recycling facilities (bottle banks etc.). Combine with recycling_type=container for containers or recycling_type=centre for recycling centres.	
Recycling.png
Recycling.jpg
amenity	 sauna	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A small room or house to experience dry or wet heat sessions.		
Sauna in pancevo.jpg
amenity	 shelter	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A small shelter against bad weather conditions. To additionally describe the kind of shelter use shelter_type=*.	
Rendering-amenity-shelter-mapnik.png
Réunion Maïdo kiosque pique-nique.JPG
amenity	 shower	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Public shower or bath.		
Znak D-26d.svg
amenity	 telephone	Mf node.png	 Public telephone	
Telephone.p.16.png
Telephone.jpg
amenity	 toilets	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Public toilets (might require a fee)	
Toilets.p.20.png
WC-Anlage.jpg
amenity	 townhall	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Building where the administration of a village, town or city may be located, or just a community meeting place	
Townhall.png
TownHall-Ljubljana.JPG
amenity	 vending_machine	Mf node.png	 A machine selling goods – food, tickets, newspapers, etc. Add type of goods using vending=*	
Vending machine.png
Vending machines at Haeundae.jpg
amenity	 waste_disposal	Mf node.png	 A place where canal boaters, caravaners etc. can dispose of rubbish (trash/waste).		
Waste container.jpg
amenity	 watering_place	Mf node.png	 Place where water is contained and animals can drink		
Drinking Water For Humans and Animals.jpg
amenity	 water_point	Mf node.png	 Place where you can get large amounts of drinking water		
Aire de Valuejols.JPG
amenity	 user defined	Mf node.png Mf way.png Mf area.png	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Barrier
Used to describe barriers and obstacles to travel. See Barriers for more details on usage.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
Linear barriers
barrier	 city_wall	Way Area	 A fortification used to defend a city or settlement from potential aggressors. 
From ancient to modern times, they are used to enclose settlements.
right side is bottom, left side is top. if both sides are same height then add "two_sided=yes".
See also historic=city_gate.

City wall avila.png
barrier	 ditch	Way Area	 A trench, ditch or ravine, usually with a stream at the bottom, that is not easily crossed, especially if not on foot. 
Can be used in combination with waterway=stream or waterway=drain.		
Forest ditch.JPG
barrier	 fence	Way Area	 A structure supported by posts driven into the ground and designed to prevent movement across a boundary. It is distinguished from a wall by the lightness of its construction. Use fence_type=* to add details.	Barrier fence mapnik.png	Anglerise.jpg
barrier	 guard_rail	Way	 A guard_rail, also called a crash barrier. Right side is inner, left side is outer.		CrashBarrier.jpg
barrier	 hedge	Way Area	 is a line of closely spaced shrubs and bushes, planted and trained in such a way as to form a barrier or to mark the boundary of an area.		Daniel Fuchs.CC-BY-SA.Morus nigra.Hedge.jpg
barrier	 kerb	Node Way	 A (for example footway) kerb is a barrier for vehicles and wheelchair drivers. The height of the kerb is important and with this information, the usage by different groups can be determined. The height of the kerb is tagged additionally as height=*, if available. Right side is bottom, left side is top.		Obrubnik.jpg
barrier	 retaining_wall	Way Area	 Retaining walls serve to retain the lateral pressure of soil. Right side is bottom, left side is top.		Retaining wall.png
barrier	 wall	Way Area	 a freestanding solid structure designed to restrict or prevent movement across a boundary. Usually made from solid brick, concrete or stone and almost always built so that it is opaque to vision.	Wallonmap.png	Dscf0590-800.jpg
Access control on highways
barrier	 block	Node	 A large, solid, immobile block that can be moved only with heavy machinery or great effort. 
Typically big solid things made of concrete for stopping larger vehicles. 
Sometimes natural boulders are used for the same purpose.		Barrier roadblock.jpg
barrier	 bollard	Node Way	 solid (usually concrete or metal) pillar or pillars in the middle of the road to prevent passage by some traffic.		Bollard in residential area.jpg
barrier	 border_control	Node	 This is a control point at an international border between two countries. Passports or other forms of ID will be checked.		EU Swiss border post.jpg
barrier	 bump_gate	Node	 See wikipedia:Bump gate		[1] [2] [3]
barrier	 bus_trap	Node	 See wikipedia:Bus trap		Bussluse 05-04-06 02.jpg
barrier	 cattle_grid	Node	 Bars in the road surface that allow wheeled vehicles but not animals to cross. 
Sometimes known as a Texas Gate, even outside of Texas		
Cattle grid.jpg
barrier	 chain	Node	 A chain used to prevent motorised vehicles.		Barrier chain.jpg
barrier	 cycle_barrier	Node	 Barriers to bicycle traffic, most typically a pair of staggered steel bars perpendicular to the way itself whose gaps allow pedestrians to pass.		Unknown barrier.jpg
barrier	 debris	Node	 A road is blocked by debris with or without ground. This might be for short or long time. Often used as first step in blocking an abandoned road. The photo does not display the road after the debris because it was a slope road and the photo was taken on the top.		Barrier debris.jpg
barrier	 entrance	Node	 A gap in a linear barrier with nothing that limits passing through. 
access=yes is understood. 
The limitations are the same of the way that crosses it, if there is such.		Entrance.png
barrier	 full-height_turnstile	Node	 A full-height turnstile, also called HEET-turnstile (High Entrance/Exit Turnstile), like the ones to access security areas. Note the mix of hyphen and underscore.		TR-a.JPG
barrier	 gate	Node Way	 An entrance that can be opened or closed to get through the barrier. 
Combine with access=* where appropriate.		Gate-hindeloopen-westerdijk.jpg
barrier	 horse_stile	Node	 A horse stile allows pedestrians and horses to cross a gap through a fence, but prevents or makes it very difficult for motorcycles and live stock to cross.		Horse stile.jpg
barrier	 jersey_barrier	Node Way	 A jersey barrier consists of heavy prefabricated blocks to create a barrier. Use material=plastic or material=concrete to express the used material.		Dora Baghdad soldiers.jpg
barrier	 kent_carriage_gap	Node	 A Kent carriage gap is used by local authorities in the UK to prevent motorised vehicles from accessing public rights of way whilst allowing most horse drawn carriages to pass. 
These are now becoming common on byways in the UK		[4]
barrier	 kissing_gate	Node	 A gate which allows people to cross, but not livestock.		TL0452 stile.jpg
barrier	 lift_gate	Node	 A lift gate (boom barrier) is a bar, or pole pivoted in such a way as to allow the boom to block vehicular access through a controlled point. 
Combine with access=* where appropriate.		Lift gate.jpg
barrier	 log	Node Way	 Use this when the passage is closed by lumber (trunk of a tree). This kind of barrier is often useful to sit on. This barrier is a penalty to cyclists but can be crossed by lifting the bike over.		Rundholz-buche.jpg
barrier	 motorcycle_barrier	Node	 Barriers along paths that prevent access by motorcycles.		Motorcycle barrier.jpg
barrier	 rope	Node Way	 A flexible barrier made of fibres, twisted or braided together to improve strength. As a barrier it is often more symbolic than actually physically preventing pedestrians from accessing.		Black Red Gold Rope at German Bundestag in Berlin 2010.jpg
barrier	 sally_port	Node	 A sally port is used to pass through thick or city walls, and is a type of covered gate with two doors.		Sallyport.jpg
barrier	 spikes	Node Way Area	 Spikes on the ground that prevent unauthorized access. Can also be removeable e.g. after payment in a garage.		US Army spike strip.jpg
barrier	 stile	Node	 A stile allows pedestrians to cross a wall or fence, but never actually "opens" the barrier 
(unlike a gate, a stile has few or no moving parts).		KentStile.jpg
barrier	 sump_buster	Node	 A sump buster is a concrete slab or steel structure that prevents passing of two-tracked vehicles with less than a minimum track and ground clearance. (Typically stops normal cars.)		SumpBuster.jpg
barrier	 swing_gate	Node	 Similar to a lift gate but rotates sidewards to open. It is usually made out of metal bars (wood or other material possible) and is intended to prevent cars from access but can usually be crossed by pedestrians and cyclists.		16052010022.JPG
barrier	 toll_booth	Node	 A road usage toll or fee is collected here.		Toll booth.jpg
barrier	 turnstile	Node	 A turnstile (also called baffle gate) is used to allow one person at a time to pass. Use this for small turnstiles like the ones in supermarkets or some subways.		Barrier drehkreuz.JPG
barrier	 user defined	Mf node.png Mf area.png	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Boundary
Used to describe administrative and other boundaries. See Boundaries for more details.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
boundary	 administrative	Area	 An administrative boundary. Subdivisions of areas/territories/jurisdictions recognised by governments or other organisations for administrative purposes. These range from large groups of nation states right down to small administrative districts and suburbs, as indicated by the 'admin_level=*' combo tag	
Rendering-area-boundary-administrative.png
Lake city sign.jpg
boundary	 maritime	Area	 Maritime boundaries		
boundary	 national_park	Area	 Area of outstanding natural beauty, set aside for conservation and for recreation (Other languages)	
Rendering-area-boundary-national park.png
Kings Canyon NP Sign.JPG
boundary	 political	Area	 Electoral boundaries		
boundary	 postal_code	Area	 Postal code boundaries		
boundary	 religious_administration	Area	 An religious administrative boundary.
See: Talk:Key:boundary#Religious authority boundaries		
boundary	 protected_area	Area	 Protected areas, such as for national-parks, water protection areas or indigenous areas.		
border_type	 *	Way Area	 To distinguish between types of boundary where admin_level isn't enough. Used in several different ways e.g in maritime contexts		
boundary	 user defined	Node Way	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
Attributes
admin_level	 Number	Area	 Applies to boundary=administrative and is usually in the range 1 to 10, except for Germany where it might be 11 - see boundary.		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Building
Used to identify individual buildings or groups of connected buildings. See Buildings for further details of usage of this tag and man_made=* for tagging of various other structures.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Photo
Accommodation
building	 apartments	Area	 A building arranged into individual dwellings, often on separate floors. May also have retail outlets on the ground floor. How does one map the retail elements? Use building:levels=* for the total number of floors.	Apartments6levels.png
building	 dormitory	Area	 For a shared building, as used by college/university students (not a share room for multiple occupants as implied by the term in British English). Would 'hall_of_residence' be better?	Belgrade Dormitory.jpg
building	 farm	Area	 A residential building on a farm (farmhouse). For other buildings see below building=farm_auxiliary, building=barn, ... If in your country farmhouse looks same as general residential house then you can tag as building=house as well. See also landuse=farmyard	Studna pred c.1.,Holašovice.JPG
building	 hotel	Area	 A building designed with separate rooms available for overnight accommodation. Normally used in conjunction with tourism=hotel for the hotel grounds including recreation areas and parking.	Hcom 1097758 7 b.jpg
building	 house	Area	 A single dwelling unit inhabited by family or small group sharing facilities such as a kitchen. Houses forming half of a semi-detached pair, or one of a row of terraced houses, should share at least two nodes with joined neighbours, thereby defining the party wall between the properties.	Emptyhouse.jpg
building	 detached	Area	 A single dwelling unit inhabited by family or small group sharing facilities such as a kitchen.	Residential House USA.JPG
building	residential	Area	 A general tag for a building used primarily for residential purposes. Where additional detail is available consider using one or more areas tagged as 'apartments', 'terrace' or 'house'.	Timarpur Residential Complex.jpg
building	terrace	Area	 A single way used to define the outline of a linear row of residential dwellings, each of which normally has its own entrance, which form a terrace (row-house in North American English). Consider defining each dwelling separately using 'house'.	Terraced housing.png
building	houseboat	Area	 A boat used primarily as a home	Houseboat- Dal Lake, srinagar Kashmir.JPG
building	static_caravan	Area	 A mobile home (semi)permanently left on a single site	67elcona.JPG
Commercial
building	 commercial	Area	 A building where non-specific commercial activities take place; use office=* to describe the type of office. Consider tagging the area using landuse=commercial. Use 'retail' if the building consists primarily of shops.	Buildingoffices.png
building	industrial	Area	 A building where some industrial process takes place. Use warehouse if the purpose is known to be primarily for storage/distribution. Consider using landuse=industrial for the surrounding area and the proposed industrial=* tag to describe the industrial activity.	Eley Industrial Estate1.JPG
building	retail	Area	 A building primarily used for selling goods are sold to the public; use shop=* to identify the sort of goods sold. Consider use landuse=retail for the surrounding area. How is one meant to indicate that there is also residential accommodation or office use above?	Extensive Retail Mall.jpg
building	warehouse	Area	 A building primarily used for the storage or goods or as part of a distribution system.	Copenhagen warehouse.jpg
Civic/amenity
building	 cathedral	Area	 A building that was built as a cathedral. Used in conjunction with amenity=place_of_worship, religion=* and denomination=* for the cathedral grounds where it is in current use.	Saint Vitus Cathedral in Prague, Czech Republic.jpg
building	 chapel	Area	 A building that was built as a chapel. Used in conjunction with amenity=place_of_worship, religion=* and denomination=* for the chapel grounds where it is in current use.	Bevillers chapel cemetery.jpg
building	 church	Area	 A building that was built as a church. Used in conjunction with amenity=place_of_worship, religion=* and denomination=* for the church grounds where it is in current use.	Churchstcl.jpg
building	 civic	Area	 For any civic amenity, for example amenity=community_centre, amenity=library, amenity=toilets, leisure=sports_centre, leisure=swimming_pool, amenity=townhall etc. Use amenity=* or leisure=* etc to provide further details. See building=public as well.	Scarborough Civic Centre.jpg
building	hospital	Area	 A building which forms part of a hospital. Use amenity=hospital for the hospital grounds.	Hospital.png
building	school	Area	 For any generic school buildings. Buildings for specific uses (sports halls etc) should be tagged for their purpose. Use amenity=school for the perimeter of the school grounds.	Convent School's Pippal.JPG
building	train_station	Area	 A train station building.	Dobrepolje train station.jpg
building	transportation	Area	 A building related to public transport. You will probably want to tag it with proper tranport related tag as well, such as public_transport=station. Note that there is a special tag for train station buildings - building=train_station.	Kusatsu-Onsen Bus Station.jpg
building	 university	Area	 A university building. Use amenity=university for the whole university area.	University College Oxford.jpg
building	 public	Area	 A public building. Don't use amenity=public_building.	Dominion Public Building.JPG
Other
building	 barn	Area	 An agricultural building used for storage and as a covered workplace.	EJFrykBarn.jpg
building	 bridge	Area	 A building used as a bridge. Can also represent a gatehouse for drawbridges. See also bridge=yes for highway=*. Don't use this tag just for for marking bridges (their outlines). For such purposes consider the proposed man_made=bridge.	Ponte Veccio1.JPG
building	 bunker	Area	 A hardened military building. Also use military=bunker.	Slavonický les, bunkr 01.jpg
building	cabin	Area	 A cabin is a small, roughly built house usually with a wood exterior and typically found in rural areas.	Koch Cabin.JPG
building	construction	Area	 Used for buildings under construction. Use construction=* to hold the value for the completed building.	Riga, stavba.jpg
building	cowshed	Area	 A cowshed (cow barn, cow house) is a a building for housing cows, usually found on farms.	Cowhouse Hrazany2.jpg
building	 farm_auxiliary	Area	 A building on a farm that is not a dwelling (use 'house' for the farm house).	Horseshoe Barn.jpg
building	garage	Area	 A garage is a building suitable for the storage of one or possibly more motor vehicle or similar. See building=garages for larger shared buildings.	Two-Car Garage.jpg
building	garages	Area	 A building that consists of a number of discrete storage spaces for different owners/tenants. See also building=garage.	Landbouwstraat garages.jpg
building	greenhouse	Area	 A greenhouse is a glass or plastic covered building used to grow plants. Use landuse=greenhouse_horticulture for the area	Greenhouse 1.JPG
building	hangar	Area	 A hangar is a building used for the storage of airplanes, helicopters or space-craft. Consider adding aeroway=hangar, when appropriate.	IMPA hangar.jpg
building	hut	Area	 A hut is a small and crude shelter.	Kennedy's hut edit.jpg
building	roof	Area	 A structure that consists of a roof with open sides, such as a rain shelter, and also gas stations	Preem Karlskrona.jpg
building	shed	Area	 A shed is a simple, single-storey structure in a back garden or on an allotment that is used for storage, hobbies, or as a workshop.	Elderly Shed.png
building	stable	Area	 A stable is a building where horses are kept.	Häststall Elfviks gård dec 2008.jpg
building	sty	Area	 A sty (pigsty, pig ark, pig-shed) is a a building for raising domestic pigs, usually found on farms.	Schweinehütten.jpg
building	transformer_tower	Area	 A transformer tower is a characteristic tall building comprising a distribution transformer and constructed to provide direct connection to a medium voltage overhead power line. Quite often the power line has since been undergrounded but it may still serve as a substation. See also power=substation.	OesterSkovVejHad.jpg
building	 yes	Area	 Use this value where it is not possible to determine a more specific value.	
building	 user defined	Node Area	All commonly used values according to Taginfo, generally building types	
Additional attributes
entrance	 yes/main/exit/service/emergency	Node	 An entrance in a building. Replaces the deprecated tag building=entrance.	
height	 number	NodeArea	 The height of the building in meters.	
building:levels	 number	NodeArea	 The number of levels (floors) in the building.	
building:fireproof	 yes/no	NodeArea	 Fire-resistance information.	
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Craft
A place producing or processing customised goods. See Crafts for more information.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
craft	 agricultural_engines	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Planning, and Constructing engines and tools for agricultural use.		Green tractor.jpg
craft	 basket_maker	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Producing baskets, often made from Willow.		Basket flein.jpeg
craft	 beekeeper	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where honey bees are kept for the purposes of securing commodities such as honey, beeswax or pollen.		WPKiW - Skansen - Pszczelarz 01.jpg
craft	 blacksmith	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where a blacksmith forges tools, horseshoes, etc. from iron.		Kovár pri práci (Velikonocní trhy na Václavském námestí) 055.jpg
craft	 brewery	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A brewery is a dedicated building for the making of beer		Brewery.png
craft	 boatbuilder	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Planning, and Contructing boats.		Snipa.JPG
craft	 bookbinder	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Physically assembling a book from a number of sheets of paper.		Traditional bookbinder.jpg
craft	 carpenter	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of Carpenters that work with timber to construct, install and maintain buildings, furniture, and other objects.		Charpentier médiéval.JPG
craft	 carpet_layer	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of carpet layers that bring carpet on your floor.		Teppichboden.JPG
craft	 caterer	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of one who prepares customized meals for takeout, or provides prepared meals or supplies to a group at social gatherings.		Catering picoplato 001.jpg
craft	 clockmaker	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a clockmaker that is building or repairing clocks but not watches. See also craft=watchmaker		Lichtenwalde4.jpg
craft	 confectionery	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where the set of food items that are rich in sugar, any one or type of which is called a confection is produced.		Zaunerstollen.jpg
craft	 dressmaker	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where clothes are created, repaired or altered to fit personal needs.		
craft	 electrician	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of an electrician which is a tradesman specialized in electrical wiring of buildings, stationary machines and related equipment.		Szafa elektryczna002.JPG
craft	 falles	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a craftsman or craftwoman of (Valencian) falles.		Fallas 2011 07.JPG
craft	 gardener	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a garden designer or a landscape gardener.		SF Japanese Garden.JPG
craft	 glaziery	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where residential, commercial, and artistic glass is selected, cutted, installed, replaced, and removed		Glaserei Hundestr.JPG
craft	 handicraft	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where useful and decorative devices are made completely by hand or using only simple tools		Belarus-Minsk-Exhibition of Traditional Crafts, 3.jpg
craft	 hvac	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of an HVAC system designer (Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning)		Northeastern University - air conditioner.JPG
craft	 insulation	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of of a person who does thermal insulation in buildings.		
craft	 jeweller	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where necklaces, rings, brooches, earrings and bracelets and other personal adornments are created or repaired.		
craft	 locksmith	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where locks and keys are created or repaired.		
craft	 key_cutter	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where keys can be duplicated from originals.		
craft	 metal_construction	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where handrails, gates, ramps and similar things from metal are made.		
craft	 optician	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where lenses for the correction of a person's vision are designed, fitted and dispensed.		
craft	 painter	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a house painter which is a tradesman responsible for the painting and decorating of buildings.		
craft	 parquet_layer	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a parquet layer.		
craft	 photographer	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a person who takes photographs using a camera.		
craft	 photographic_laboratory	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where photos taken on a film ort digital images are transformed into a more permanent form, often on paper or plastic foil.		
craft	 plasterer	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a tradesman who works with plaster, such as forming a layer of plaster on an interior wall or plaster decorative moldings on ceilings or walls.		
craft	 plumber	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a tradesman who specializes in installing and maintaining systems used for potable (drinking) water, sewage, and drainage.		
craft	 pottery	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where earthenware, stoneware and porcelain and other ceramic ware is made by potters.		Shop Craft Pottery.png
craft	 rigger	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a person who makes masts, yards, sails, and cordage for sailboats and sailing ships.		
craft	 roofer	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a tradesman who is specialized in roof construction.		
craft	 saddler	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where saddles or accessories for cars and boats are produced or repaired.		
craft	 sailmaker	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a person who makes and repairs sails for sailboats and sailing ships, typically working on shore in a sail loft.		
craft	 sawmill	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A workplace where logs are cut into boards.		
craft	 scaffolder	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a tradesman who builds temporary structure used to support people and material in the construction or repair of buildings and other large structures.		
craft	 sculptor	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where Sculpture are made.		
craft	 shoemaker	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where shoes, boots, sandals, clogs and moccasins are created, repaired or altered to fit personal needs. See also shop=shoes for a place where shoes are sold, but not made or altered		
craft	 stand_builder	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace of a company that builds stands/booths for fairs.		
craft	 stonemason	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where rough pieces of rock are shaped into accurate geometrical shapes.		Stonemason.png
craft	 sun_protection	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where sun protection is made, repaired, or delivered for assembly, especially awnings and shutters.		
craft	 sweep	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a person who cleans chimneys for a living.		
craft	 tailor	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where clothing is made, repaired, or altered professionally, especially suits and men's clothing.		
craft	 tiler	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Workplace or office of a person who lays tiles on floors, swimming pools and such.		
craft	 tinsmith	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A tinsmith, or tinner or tinker or tinplate worker. Workplace or office of a person who makes and repairs things made of light-coloured metal, particularly tinware.		
craft	 upholsterer	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where furniture, especially seats are provided with padding, springs, webbing, and fabric or leather covers.		
craft	 watchmaker	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A watchmaker is an artisan who makes and repairs watches. Today due to industrial production they mostly repair watches. For other kinds of clocks see craft=clockmaker		Pocket watch with chain.jpg
craft	 window_construction	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Construct windows		
craft	 user defined	Mf node.png Mf area.png	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Emergency
Used to describe the location of emergency facilities and equipment. See Emergency for more information on usage.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
emergency	 ambulance_station	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 An ambulance station is a structure or other area set aside for storage of ambulance vehicles, medical equipment, personal protective equipment, and other medical supplies.		
Amb station.JPG
emergency	 defibrillator	Mf node.png	 An Automated External Defibrillator (AED) is a first-aid device that automates the process of diagnosing life-threatening cardiac arrhythmia and performing defibrillation. Previously tagged as emergency=aed or medical=aed.		
Jt osm defi ibis.jpg
emergency	 fire_extinguisher	Mf node.png	 A fire extinguisher is an active fire protection device used to extinguish or control small fires, often in emergency situations.		
Fire extinguisher ja.jpg
emergency	 fire_flapper	Mf node.png	 A flapper is a wildland firefighting tool also called a swatter or a beater. It is designed for extinguishing minor fires in rural areas such as heaths.		
Branddaskere.JPG
emergency	 fire_hose	Mf node.png	 A fire hose is a high-pressure hose used to carry water or other fire retardant (such as foam) to a fire to extinguish it.		
IndoorFireHose-non.jpg
emergency	 fire_hydrant	Mf node.png	 A fire hydrant is an active fire protection measure, and a source of water provided in most urban, suburban and rural areas with municipal water service or other water source to enable firefighters to tap into the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire.		
Downtown Charlottesville fire hydrant.jpg
emergency	 phone	Mf node.png	 An emergency phone is specifically provided for making calls to emergency services and is most often found in a place of special danger.	
Sosphone.png
Sos.jpg
emergency	 ses_station	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A State Emergency Service is an Australian volunteer organisation that provides emergency help during and after declared (natural or otherwise) disasters.		
NSW SES Murrumbidgee Region HQ.jpg
emergency	 siren	Mf node.png	 A siren is a loud noise maker. Most modern ones are civil defense, "air raid" sirens or tornado sirens.		
Bundesarchiv B 422 Bild-0010, Sirene.jpg
emergency	 water_tank	Mf node.png	 Stock tank for fire-fighting water.		
emergency	 user defined	Mf node.png Mf area.png	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.

Geological
Used to describe the geological makeup of an area. See Geological for further information.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
geological	 outcrop	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 An outcrop site is a place where the bedrock or superficial deposits have become locally exposed and are directly accessible to analysis.		
Buntsandstein.png
geological	 moraine	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A moraine is any ice formed accumulation of unconsolidated glacial debris (soil and rock) which can occur in currently glaciated and formerly glaciated regions, such as those areas acted upon by glacial ice.		
GornerGlacier.jpg
geological	 palaeontological_site	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A palaeontological site is a place (or group of physical sites) in which remains of ancient living forms is preserved. Area under the study of the forms of life existing in prehistoric times, as represented by the fossils of plants, animals, and other organisms investigated using the discipline of palaeontology.	
Palaeontological site.svg
Giacimento paleontologico villaggio del pescatore duino.jpg
geological	 user defined	Mf node.png Mf area.png	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Highway
Used to describe roads and footpaths. See Highways for further guidance and Restrictions for details of access limitations by vehicle type/ time/ day/ load/ purpose etc.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
Roads
The principal tags for the road network, from most to least important

highway	 motorway	Way	 A restricted access major divided highway, normally with 2 or more running lanes plus emergency hard shoulder. Equivalent to the Freeway, Autobahn, etc..	Rendering-highway motorway neutral.png	Motorway-photo.jpg
highway	 trunk	Way	 The most important roads in a country's system that aren't motorways. (Need not necessarily be a divided highway.)	Rendering-highway trunk neutral.png	Dscf0444 600.jpg
highway	 primary	Way	 The next most important roads in a country's system. (Often link larger towns.)	Rendering-highway primary neutral.png	Primary-photo.jpg
highway	 secondary	Way	 The next most important roads in a country's system. (Often link smaller towns and villages.)	Rendering-highway secondary neutral.png	Meyenburg-L134.jpg
highway	 tertiary	Way	 The next most important roads in a country's system.	Rendering-highway tertiary neutral.png	OHZ-K28-Bergedorfer Str.jpg
highway	 unclassified	Way	 The least most important through roads in a country's system - i.e. minor roads of a lower classification than tertiary, but which serve a purpose other than access to properties. (The word 'unclassified' is a historical artefact of the UK road system and does not mean that the classification is unknown; you can use highway=road for that.)	Rendering-highway unclassified.png	Highway unclassified-photo.jpg
highway	 residential	Way	 Roads which are primarily lined with and serve as an access to housing.	Rendering-highway residential.png	Residential.jpg
highway	 service	Way Area	 For access roads to, or within an industrial estate, camp site, business park, car park etc. Can be used in conjunction with service=* to indicate the type of usage and with access=* to indicate who can use it and in what circumstances.	Rendering-highway service.png	Alley.jpg
Link roads

highway	 motorway_link	Way	 The link roads (sliproads/ramps) leading to/from a motorway from/to a motorway or lower class highway. Normally with the same motorway restrictions.	Rendering-highway motorway link.png	
Dscf0242 600.jpg
highway	 trunk_link	Way	 The link roads (sliproads/ramps) leading to/from a trunk road from/to a trunk road or lower class highway.	Rendering-highway trunk link.png	Trunk link.jpg
highway	 primary_link	Way	 The link roads (sliproads/ramps) leading to/from a primary road from/to a primary road or lower class highway.	Rendering-highway primary link.png	
highway	 secondary_link	Way	 The link roads (sliproads/ramps) leading to/from a secondary road from/to a secondary road or lower class highway.		
highway	 tertiary_link	Way	 The link roads (sliproads/ramps) leading to/from a tertiary road from/to a tertiary road or lower class highway.		
Special road types

highway	 living_street	Way	 For living streets, which are residential streets where pedestrians have legal priority over cars, speeds are kept very low and where children are allowed to play on the street.	Living street osm.png	Spielstrasse.jpg
highway	 pedestrian	Way Area	 For roads used mainly/exclusively for pedestrians in shopping and some residential areas which may allow access by motorised vehicles only for very limited periods of the day. To create a 'square' or 'plaza' create a closed way and tag as pedestrian and also with area=yes.	Pedestrian with area osm.png	Calle arenal.jpg
highway	 track	Way	 Roads for agricultural or forestry uses etc, often rough with unpaved/unsealed surfaces. In countries where most roads are unpaved, you should still use the main trunk/primary/secondary/tertiary/unclassified values, making sure to also tag the surface type. Use surface=* or tracktype=* for tagging to describe the surface.	Rendering-highway track.png	Frühlingslandschft Aaretal Schweiz.jpg
highway	 bus_guideway	Way	 A busway where the vehicle guided by the way (though not a railway) and is not suitable for other traffic. Please note: this is not a normal bus lane, use access=no, psv=yes instead!		
Bus track.jpg
highway	 raceway	Way	 A course or track for (motor) racing	Rendering-highway-raceway-mapnik.png	Raceway.jpg
highway	 road	Way	 A road where the mapper is unable to ascertain the classification from the information available. This is intended as a temporary tag to mark a road until it has been properly surveyed. Once it has been surveyed, the classification should be updated to the appropriate value.		Road.png
Paths
highway	 footway	Way	 For designated footpaths; i.e., mainly/exclusively for pedestrians. This includes walking tracks and gravel paths. If bicycles are allowed as well, you can indicate this by adding a bicycle=yes tag. Should not be used for paths where the primary or intended usage is unknown. Use highway=pedestrian for pedestrianised roads in shopping or residential areas and highway=track if it is usable by agricultural or similar vehicles.	Rendering-highway footway.png	Dscf0487 600.jpg
highway	 bridleway	Way	 For horses. Equivalent to highway=path + horse=designated.	Rendering-highway bridleway.png	Bridleway-reitweg-de.jpg
highway	 steps	Way	 For flights of steps (stairs) on footways. Use with step_count=* to indicate the number of steps	Rendering-highway steps.png	Steps.jpg
highway	path	Way	 A non-specific or shared-use path. Use highway=footway for paths mainly for walkers,  highway=cycleway for one also usable by cyclists, highway=bridleway for ones available to horses as well as walkers and highway=track for ones which is passable by agriculture or similar vehicles.	Path osm.png	GuideFootPathCycleYes.jpg
When sidewalk (or pavement) is tagged on the main roadway (see Sidewalks)

sidewalk	 both / left / right / yes / no	Way	 Specifies that the highway has sidewalks on both sides, on one side or no sidewalk at all		Sidewalk and zebra-crossing.jpg
When cycleway is drawn as its own way (see Bicycle)

highway	 cycleway	Way	 For designated cycleways. Add foot=* only if default-access-restrictions do not apply.	Cycleway osm.png	Separated cycleway with traffic sign
When cycleway or lane is tagged on the main roadway (see Bicycle)

cycleway	 lane	Way	 A lane is a route that lies within the roadway		Cycle trackinroad.jpg
cycleway	 opposite	Way	 Used on ways with oneway=yes where it is permitted to cycle in both directions (only in countries where it is legally permitted).		120px-Zusatzzeichen 1000-33.svg.png
cycleway	 opposite_lane	Way	 Used on ways with oneway=yes that have a cycling lane going the opposite direction of normal traffic flow (a "contraflow" lane)		Fr-C24a ex3-Conditions particulieres par voie-velo.gif
cycleway	 track	Way	 A track is a route that is separate from the road.+oneway=yes if needed.	Mapping-Features-Cycleway-track.PNG	Cycle nexttoroad.jpg
cycleway	 opposite_track	Way	 Used on ways with oneway=yes that have a cycling track going the opposite direction of normal traffic flow		
cycleway	 shared	Way	 Cyclists share space with other traffic on this highway.		
cycleway	 share_busway	Way	 There is a bus lane that cyclists are permitted to use.		
cycleway	 shared_lane	Way	 Cyclists share a lane with motor vehicles, but there are markings indicating that they should share the lane with motorists.		
Lifecycle
highway	 proposed	Way	 For planned roads, use with proposed=* and also proposed=* with a value of the proposed highway value.	Planned mapnik.png	
highway	 construction	Way	 For roads under construction. Use construction=* to hold the value for the completed road.	Highway construction 200805041655.png	12Jan05 04.jpg
Attributes
abutters	 commercial/ industrial/ mixed/ residential/ retail etc.	Way	 See Key:abutters for more details.		Dscf1376-600.jpg
ford	 yes	Node Way	 The road crosses through stream or river, vehicles must enter any water.		Map feature ford.jpg
ice_road	yes	Way	 A highway is laid upon frozen water basin, definitely doesn't exist in summer.		
incline	 Number %/°	Node Way	 Incline steepness as percents ("5%") or degrees ("20°"). Positive/negative values indicate movement upward/downwards in the direction of the way.		
junction	 roundabout	Way Closed way	 This automatically implies oneway=yes, the oneway direction is defined by the sequential ordering of nodes within the Way. This applies on a way, tagged with highway=* already.	Mapping-Features-Roundabout-Simple.png	Roundabout.jpg
lanes	 number	Way	 The number of traffic lanes for general purpose traffic, also for buses and other specific classes of vehicle.		
NLEx 6 Lanes.jpg
lit	 yes/no	NodeWayArea	 Street lighting		
Berlin speer-leuchte.jpg
motorroad	 yes / no	Way Node	 The motorroad tag is used to describe highways that have motorway-like access restrictions but that are not a motorway.		120px-Zeichen 331.svg.png
mountain_pass	 yes	Node	 The highest point of a mountain pass.		Mountain pass.jpg
mtb:scale	 0-6	Way	 Applies to highway=path and highway=track. A classification scheme for mtb trails (few inclination and downhill).		S3.jpg
mtb:scale:uphill	 0-5	Way	 A classification scheme for mtb trails for going uphill if there is significant inclination.		
mtb:scale:imba	 0-4	Way	 The IMBA Trail Difficulty Rating System shall be used for bikeparks. It is adapted to mtb trails with artificial obstacles.		
mtb:description	 Text	Way	 Applies to highway=path and highway=track. A key to input variable infos related to mtbiking on a way with human words		
overtaking	yes/ no/ both/ forward/ backward	Way	 Specifying sections of roads where overtaking is legally forbidden.		
passing_places	yes	Way	 A way which has frequent passing places		
sac_scale	 hiking / mountain_hiking / demanding_mountain_hiking / alpine_hiking / demanding_alpine_hiking / difficult_alpine_hiking	Way	 Applies to highway=path and highway=footway. A classification scheme for hiking trails.		Mountain hiking.jpg
service	 alley/ driveway/ parking_aisle etc.	Way	 See Key:service for more details.		
Seattle - alley north from S Jackson between Western & 1st - A.jpg
surface	 paved / unpaved / asphalt / concrete / paving_stones / cobblestone / metal / wood / grass_paver / gravel / pebblestone / grass / ground / earth / dirt / mud / sand	Way	 See Key:surface for more details.		
tactile_paving	 yes / no	Node Way Area	 A paving in the ground to be followed with a blindman's stick.	 Not to be rendered on standard maps.	
Tactile paving.jpg
tracktype	 grade1/ grade2/ grade3/ grade4/ grade5	Way	 To describe the quality of the surface. See Key:tracktype and Key:surface for more information.	
Mapnik-tracktype-grade1.png
Surface grade1.jpg
traffic_calming	 yes/ bump/ hump/ cushion/ table etc.	Node Way	 See Key:traffic_calming for more details.		
trail_visibility	 excellent / good / intermediate / bad / horrible / no	Way	 Applies to highway=path, highway=footway, highway=cycleway and highway=bridleway. A classification for hiking trails visibility		
winter_road	yes	Way	 A highway functions during winter, probably can't be driven in summer.		Anuisk bilibino sever66.jpg
Other features
highway	 bus_stop	Node	 A small bus stop. Can be mapped more rigorously using public_transport=stop_position for the position where the vehicle stops and public_transport=platform for the place where passengers wait. See public_transport=* for more details.	
Bus.gif
Bus prumyslova.jpg
highway	 crossing	Node	 Pedestrians can cross a street here; e.g., zebra crossing		Zebra-crossing sm.jpg
highway	 emergency_access_point	Node	 Sign number which can be used to define your current position in case of an emergency. Use with ref=NUMBER_ON_THE_SIGN	
Emergency access point.png
Anfahrpunkt HP 108.jpg
highway	 escape	Way Area	 Emergency lane beside long descending slopes for trucks and other vehicles to stop safely after brake failure.	 Not decided yet, but a white/red checkered line has been proposed.	A7-Notbremsweg.jpg
highway	 give_way	Node	 A "give way," or "Yield" sign	
UK traffic sign 501.svg
Give way.jpg
emergency	 phone	Node	 A calling device can be used to tell on your current position in case of an emergency. Use with ref=NUMBER_ON_THE_SIGN	
Sosphone.png
Borne SOS.jpg
highway	 mini_roundabout	Node	 Similar to roundabouts, but at the center there is either a painted circle or a fully traversable island. In case of an untraversable center island, junction=roundabout should be used.
Rendered as anti-clockwise by default direction=anticlockwise. To render clockwise add the tag direction=clockwise.

Mapping-Features-Mini-Roundabout.png	Mini-roundabout.jpg
highway	 motorway_junction	Node	 Indicates a junction (UK) or exit (US). ref=* should be set to the exit number or junction identifier. (Some roads - e.g., the A14 - also carry junction numbers, so the tag may be encountered elsewhere despite its name)	
Osmarender-motorway-junction.png
Dscf0242 600.jpg
highway	passing_place	Node	 The location of a passing space		Ausweichstelle.jpg
highway	 rest_area	Node Area	 Place where drivers can leave the road to rest, but not refuel.	Rendering-highway-services-mapnik.jpg	Wentworth terrain.jpg
highway	 speed_camera	Node	 A fixed road-side or overhead speed camera.	
Speed trap 16x16.png
Speed camera.jpg
highway	street_lamp	Node	 A street light, lamppost, street lamp, light standard, or lamp standard is a raised source of light on the edge of a road, which is turned on or lit at a certain time every night		Litpath.jpg
highway	 services	Node Area	 A service station to get food and eat something, often found at motorways	Rendering-highway-services-mapnik.jpg	De lucht.jpg
highway	 stop	Node	 A stop sign	
Stop.png
STOP sign.jpg
highway	 traffic_signals	Node	 Lights that control the traffic	Rendering-traffic singals.jpg	Ampel.jpg
highway	 turning_circle	Node	 A turning circle is a rounded, widened area usually, but not necessarily, at the end of a road to facilitate easier turning of a vehicle. Also known as a cul de sac.	Mapping-Features-Turning-Circle.png	Turning circle.jpg
highway	 User Defined	Node Way	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Historic
Used to describe various archeological sites, wrecks, ruins, castles and ancient buildings. See Historic for further details on usage.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
historic	 archaeological_site	Node Area	 A place in which evidence of past activity is preserved	
Tourist archaeological2.glow.16.png
Dscf0105 600.jpg
historic	 aircraft	Node Area	 A decommissioned aircraft which generally remains in one place		Historic aircraft monki.JPG
historic	 battlefield	Node Area	 The site of a battle or military skirmish in the past. This could be on land or at sea.		
Fort Donelson river battery (1).jpg
historic	 boundary_stone	Node	 A historic boundary stone usually found along the way.		
Boundary stone St Brelade and St Peter, Jersey.jpg
historic	 castle	Node Area	 Castles are (often fortified) buildings from medieval and modern times. Other languages		Dscf0226 600.jpg
historic	 cannon	Node	 A historic/retired cannon. Usually found at on forts or battlefields.		
Muzzle loading cannons at the Swedish Naval Museum (6648150909).jpg
historic	 city_gate	Node Area	 A Wikipedia city gate (or town gate) is a gate within a city wall.		Spaarnwouder- of Amsterdamse poort.jpg
historic	 citywalls	Way Area	 A Wikipedia defensive wall is a fortification used to protect a city or settlement from potential aggressors.		Delitzsch Stadtmauer.jpg
historic	 farm	Node Area	 A historical farm, kept in it's original state.		Memorial-Day-2003.jpg
historic	 fort	Node Area	 A military fort - distinct from a castle as it is generally more modern		Komárom Fortress 03.jpg
historic	 manor	Node Area	 Historic Wikipedia manors / Wikipedia mansions		Gut Panker Herrenhaus.jpg
historic	 memorial	Node Area	 Much like a monument, but smaller. Might range from a WWII memorial to a simple plate on a wall.	
Tourist memorial.p.20.png
CIMG4191.JPG
historic	 monument	Node Area	 An object, especially large and made of stone, built to remember and show respect to a person or group of people. Other languages		
Monument.JPG
historic	 ruins	Node Area	 Remains of structures that were once complete, but have fallen into partial or complete disrepair. If the type of original structure is known or apparent it can be described using ruins=*, e.g. ruins=castle.
Alternative tagging is historic=castle, ruins=yes.
See the proposal and discussion at Proposed_features/ruins for ruins of historic buildings.

Dscf1813-800.jpg
historic	 rune_stone	Node	 A Wikipedia runestone is typically a raised stone with a runic inscription.		
U 240, Lingsberg.JPG
historic	 ship	Node Area	 A decommissioned ship or submarine		Aurora Cruiser Museum StPetersburg.JPG
historic	 tree_shrine	Node	 A single tree of a religious figure mounted onto a tree.		Tree Shrine - Giritzer, Mautern an der Donau, Österreich - 02.JPG
historic	 wayside_cross	Node Area	 A historical (usually christian) cross. Frequently found along the way in Southern Germany, Austria and probably elsewhere.		
Wegkreuz.jpg
historic	 wayside_shrine	Node Area	 A historical shrine often showing a religious depiction. Frequently found along the way in Southern Germany, Austria and probably elsewhere.		2003-10-11 tanner moor 36.JPG
historic	 wreck	Node Area	 Nautical craft that has unintentionally been sunk or destroyed.		LovilleWreckRedsea.jpg
historic	 user defined	Node Area	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Landuse
Used to describe the purpose for which and area of land is being used. See Landuse for more information on the use of this tag.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
landuse	 allotments	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A piece of land given over to local residents for growing vegetables and flowers.	
Landuse-allotments.png
Schrebergaerten.jpg
landuse	 basin	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 An area of water that drains into a river.
Together with basin=* for stormwater/rainwater infiltration/detention/retention basins.
Other languages.	
Landuse-basin.png
Wasserspeicher an Essens höchstem Punkt DSCF1228.jpg
landuse	 brownfield	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Describes land scheduled for new development where old buildings have been demolished and cleared	
Landuse-brownfield.png
Former Brickworks ... - geograph.org.uk - 56268.jpg
landuse	 cemetery	Mf area.png	 Place for burials. You can add religion=* (values listed in the place of worship page). Smaller places (e.g. with a church nearby) may use amenity=grave_yard instead.	
Landuse-cemetery.png
Cemetery-photo.JPG
landuse	 commercial	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Predominantly offices, business parks, etc.	
Landuse-commercial.png
Cambourne Business Park - geograph.org.uk - 15908.jpg
landuse	conservation	Mf area.png	 Protected areas (Not approved) Alternate tagging of same thing: boundary=protected_area, protected_area=*	Landuse conservation.png	
landuse	construction	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 "Under construction" site, should become something different once the construction is finished	Rendering-landuse-construction-mapnik.png	
Landuse construction.jpg
landuse	 farm	Mf area.png	 An area of farmland used for tillage and pasture (animals, crops, vegetables, flowers, fruit growing).	
Rendering-landuse-farm-mapnik.png
Farm landuse (with livestock).jpg
landuse	 farmland	Mf area.png	 Synonyme for farm, used in JOSM because farm was considered ambiguous. Farmland has been used more often as of 2013-02-21 (610 472 tags vs 453 935). See ticket #1579.		
Rye field.jpg
landuse	 farmyard	Mf area.png	 An area of land with farm buildings like farmhouse, dwellings, farmsteads, sheds, stables, barns, equipment sheds, feed bunkers, etc. plus the open space in between them and the shrubbery/trees around them.		
Farmyard.jpg
landuse	 forest	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Managed forest or woodland plantation (Other languages).	
Landuse-forest.png
Forest.jpg
landuse	 garages	Mf area.png	 One level buildings with boxes commonly for cars, usually made of brick and metal. Usualy this area belong to garage cooperative with own name, chairman, budget, rules, security, etc.		
Garages.jpg
landuse	 grass	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 For areas covered with grass. Consider landuse=meadow for meadow and landuse=pasture for pasture. Note that this is actually a Landcover tag, not a landuse tag and there is a proposal to deprecate it.	
Mapnik landuse grass .png
Grasss.jpg
landuse	 greenfield	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Describes land scheduled for new development where there have been no buildings before. A greenfield is scheduled to turn into a construction site		
landuse	 greenhouse_horticulture	Mf area.png	 Area used for growing plants in greenhouses	
Greenhouserendering.png
Greenhouses westland.jpg
landuse	 industrial	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Predominantly workshops, factories or warehouses	
Landuse-industrial.png
Rehuraisio feed plant in Oulu 2008 001.jpg
landuse	 landfill	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Place where waste is dumped. Other languages	
Rendering-landuse-landfill-mapnik.png
Landfill.jpg
landuse	 meadow	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 An area of land primarily vegetated by grass and other non-woody plants, usually mowed for making hay (Other Languages).	
Landuse Meadow.png
Mottey.jpg
landuse	 military	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 For land areas owned/used by the military for whatever purpose	Rendering-landuse-military-mapnik.png	
REUNION 2007 04.jpg
landuse	 orchard	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 intentional planting of trees or shrubs maintained for food production	Orchard.png	
Altesland2.jpg
landuse	 pasture	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 (Proposed in Proposed_features/pasture:) An area of land primarily vegetated by grass, used for grazing.		
Pasture with shelter.jpg
landuse	 plant_nursery	Mf area.png	 intentional planting of plants maintaining for the production of new plants	Treenursery.png	
Cutchogue - Oregon Road - Plant Nursery.jpg
landuse	 quarry	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Surface mineral extraction (Other languages)	
Rendering-landuse-quarry-mapnik.png
Steinbruch.jpg
landuse	 railway	Mf area.png	 Area for railway use, generally off-limits to the general public	Rendering-landuse-railway-mapnik.png	
OahuRailway&LandCo-switchtrack-signal.JPG
landuse	 recreation_ground	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 An open green space for general recreation, which may include pitches, nets and so on, usually municipal but possibly also private to colleges or companies	
Landuse-recreation ground.png
landuse	 reservoir	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Stores water, may be covered or uncovered; for a covered reservoir see also man_made=reservoir_covered (Other languages). See water=reservoir for alternative tagging.	
Landuse-reservoir.png
Amagase Dam.jpg
landuse	 residential	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Predominantly houses or apartment buildings	
Rendering-area-landuse-residential.png
Lawrenceville.jpg
landuse	 retail	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Predominantly shops	
Landuse-retail.png
Trocadero - London 1.jpg
landuse	 salt_pond	Mf area.png	 A place where sea water is evaporated to extract its salt		
Salt ponds SF Bay (dro!d).jpg
landuse	 village_green	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 An area of common land, usually grass, in the centre of a village (quintessentially English - defined separately from 'common land' under the Commons Registration Act 1965 and the Commons Act 2006).	
Landuse-village green.png
landuse	 vineyard	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A piece of land where grapes are grown.	
Landuse-vineyard.png
739px-Grape vines.jpg
landuse	 user defined	Mf node.png Mf area.png	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Leisure
Used to tag leisure and sports facilities. See Leisure for a general introduction.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
leisure	 beach_resort	Node Area	 To mark the boundary of a managed beach.		
Beach resort.jpg
leisure	 bird_hide	Node Area	 A place to observe birds.		
Belvide-gazebo.jpg
leisure	 common	Node Area	 An area where the public can walk anywhere (UK)	
Rendering-area-leisure-common.png
leisure	 dance	Node Area	 A place to go dancing.		
Webster Hall by David Shankbone.jpg
leisure	 dog_park	Node Area	 Designated area, with or without a fenced boundary, where dog-owners are permitted to exercise their pets unrestrained		
DogPark.jpg
leisure	 firepit	Node Area	 A permanent location or structure to host campfires, bonfires, etc		
Camp site.jpg
leisure	 fishing	Node Area			
Angler.jpg
leisure	 garden	Node Area	 Place where flowers and other plants are grown in a decorative and structured manner or for scientific purposes.	
Rendering-area-leisure-garden.png
SF Japanese Garden.JPG
leisure	 golf_course	Node Area	 The outline of a golf course. The node form may be used to place an icon within the course. This tag implies sport=golf.	
Rendering-area-leisure-golf course.png
Spanish-Bay-First-Tee.jpg
leisure	 hackerspace	Node Area	 A place where people with common interests, often in computers, technology, science, digital art or electronic art, can meet, socialize and/or collaborate.		
Protospace, a Hackerspace.jpg
leisure	 ice_rink	Node Area	 A place where you can skate or play ice hockey.		
Icerink2.jpg
leisure	 marina	Node Area	 For mooring leisure yachts and motor boats		
Marina.jpg
leisure	 miniature_golf	Node Area	 A place or area that you can play miniature golf.		
1st course of bahn golf.jpg
leisure	 nature_reserve	Node Area	 Protected area of importance for wildlife, flora, fauna or features of geological or other special interest.	
Nature reserve2.png
Black Opal Spring in Biscuit Basin.JPG
leisure	 park	Node Area	 Open, green area for recreation, usually municipal.	
Rendering-area-leisure-park.png
Arena Roundhay 07.jpg
leisure	 pitch	Node Area	 e.g. a field for playing football/soccer, cricket, baseball sports, and skate parks. To describe what kind of sport(s) use sport=*.	
Rendering-area-leisure-pitch.png
County-Ground-STFC-pitch-2006.JPG
leisure	 playground	Node Area	 Playground for little children.	
Rendering-area-leisure-playground.png
Playground.p.20.png
Spielplatz.jpg
leisure	 slipway	Node	 Boats can be launched here	
Osmarender slipway.png
800px-Swanage lifeboat on its slipway 1.JPG
leisure	 social_club	Node Area	 A place where members meet for activities or relaxation, such as a hunting club.		
HoustonClubEntrance.JPG
leisure	 sports_centre	Node Area	 A distinct facility where a range of sports take place within an enclosed area. To describe what kind of sport(s) use sport=*.	
Rendering-area-leisure-sports centre.png
Western Lesiure Centre Cardiff.JPG
leisure	 stadium	Node Area	 A major sports arena with substantial tiered seating. To describe what kind of sport(s) use sport=*.	
Rendering-area-leisure-stadium.png
Notre-dame-stadium.jpg
leisure	 swimming_pool	Node Area	 A swimming pool, see also Proposed_features/Swimming_pool and Tag:amenity=swimming_pool		
Pool i.jpg
leisure	 track	Node Way	 e.g. running, cycle-racing, greyhound, horses. To describe what kind of sport(s) use sport=*.	
Rendering-area-leisure-track.png
Jahnkampfbahn hamburg.jpg
leisure	 water_park	Node Area	 Amusement area with water slides, recreational swimming pools and dressing rooms.		
Caribe01.jpg
leisure	 wildlife_hide	Node Area	 A place to observe wildlife. See also leisure=bird_hide.		
Wildlife Hide, Uath Lochan - geograph.org.uk - 707260.jpg
leisure	 user defined	Node Way Area	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Man Made
A tag for identifying man made (artificial) structures added to the landscape. See Man-made for an introduction.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
man_made	 adit	Node Area	 From Wikipedia: An adit is a type of entrance to an underground mine which is horizontal or nearly horizontal		
Adit-icon.jpg
man_made	 beacon	Node	 Structures for signalling on land and sea.		
TowerBeacon.jpg
man_made	 breakwater	Way Area	 Protects a shore or harbour from the sea and waves		
Breakwater.JPG
man_made	 bunker_silo	Node Area	 Open-sided structure to store something. It can be used with vehicles to fill and empty it.		
Empty bunker silo in Nebraska.jpg
man_made	 campanile	Way Area	 A free standing bell tower, typically near a church. 
See also man_made=tower with tower:type=bell_tower.		
Klockstapel 01.jpg
man_made	 chimney	Node	 Large chimney for exhaustion.
For attached mobile phone base stations see communication:mobile_phone=yes

Schwerin Wuestmark Heizkraftwerk Schwerin-Sued.JPG
man_made	 crane	Node Area	 A stationary, permanent crane, such as those at docks		
Ladebruecke IMGP2656 osm.jpg
man_made	 cutline	Way	 Used to mark cut lines in forests.		
Cutline.jpg
man_made	 clearcut	Node Area	 Area, where most or all trees are uniformly cut down. Used in combination with natural=scrub		
Clearcutting-Oregon.jpg
man_made	 embankment	Way	 A raised bank to carry a road, railway, or canal across a low-lying or wet area.	
Cliff2.png
Railway embankment.jpg
man_made	 firepit	Node Area	 deprecated. For campfires and firepits, see leisure=firepit		
Camp site.jpg
man_made	 flagpole	Node	 A long pole built to hold a flag		
Genova-Quarto dei Mille.JPG
man_made	 gasometer	Way Area	 A gasometer is a large storage container for gas.		
Gasometer in East London.jpg
man_made	 groyne	Way Area	 A rigid hydraulic structure perpendicular to a coastline or a riverbank intended to interrupt longshore sediment transport. See also: man_made=breakwater		
Schobuellbuhne042006.jpg
man_made	 kiln	Node Area	 A thermally insulated chamber in which temperature is controlled in order to change the state of the item placed inside, usually though the process of burning, baking, drying or smelting.	
Kiln.svg
Charcoal-kiln.jpg
man_made	 lighthouse	Node	 Sends out a light beam to guide ships	
Rendering-man made-lighthouse-mapnik.png
Chania lighthouse A.jpg
man_made	 mast	Node	 Mast is a vertical structure built to hold for example antennas		
Mobile phone base station 2010 12 30 165211 PC304165.jpg
man_made	 mineshaft	Node Area	 A vertical tunnel		
Mineshaft.jpg
man_made	 monitoring_station	Node Area	 A station that monitor something		
An Air Quality Monitoring Station above the M42 - geograph.org.uk - 210181.jpg
man_made	 petroleum_well	Node	 A boring through the earth's surface that is designed to find and produce petroleum oil		
West Texas Pumpjack.JPG
man_made	 pier	Way Area	 A "bridge into the ocean", usually for recreation	
Rendering-area-man made-pier.png
Poland. Gmina Jedwabno. Narty Lake 001.JPG
man_made	 pipeline	Way	 A pipe for carrying various fluids, such as water, gas, sewage		
Pipeline.jpg
man_made	 reservoir_covered	Node Area	 A covered water reservoir		
Reservoir covered.jpg
man_made	 silo	Node Area	 A silo is a storage container for bulk material, often grains such as corn or wheat.		
Silo.jpg
man_made	 snow_fence	Way	 A snow fence is a solid fence-like structure built across steep slopes to reduce risk and severity of (snow) avalanches. Usually made of steel, sloping outwards, and trussed underneath. Sometimes refered to as a snow shed.		
Verbauung Tanngrindel.JPG
man_made	 snow_net	Way	 A snow net netting fence built across steep slopes to reduce risk and severity of (snow) avalanches. They consist of a net made of steel cables, held up by posts. Sometimes refered to as an Avalanche net.		
man_made	 storage_tank	Node Area	 A tank used for storage of liquids or gases.		
Gasometer.jpg
man_made	 surveillance	Node Area	 To mark places and buildings monitored by public or private camera	
Surveillance.png
Three Surveillance cameras.jpg
man_made	 survey_point	Node	 Triangulation pillars, geodetic vertices, and fixed equipment used by topographers (e.g. DGPS radio stations)		
Dscf1805-800.jpg
man_made	 tower	Node Area	 A tall and often lean building or structure e.g. telecoms. Please also add a tower:type=* if possible. Also see historic=* below.		
Dscf0625-800.jpg
man_made	 wastewater_plant	Node Area	 Facilities used to treat wastewater (known as sewage in some countries)	
Wastewater.jpg
Hall Lane Sewage Farm - geograph.org.uk - 69284.jpg
man_made	 watermill	Node Area	 Watermill, mostly ancient and out of order		
Belzig Springbachmuehle1.JPG
man_made	 water_tower	Node Area	 A tower to store water in, usually found on hills beside or in a town	
Tower water.p.20.png
Lanstroper Ei IMGP8117 osm.jpg
man_made	 water_works	Node Area	 A place where drinking water is found and applied to the local waterpipes network.		
Water treatment - geograph.org.uk - 231374.jpg
man_made	 water_well	Node Area	 A water well is an excavation or structure created in the ground by digging, driving, boring or drilling to access groundwater in underground aquifers.		
Water well.jpg
man_made	 windmill	Node Area	 Windmill, mostly ancient and out of order, see power=generator in combination with generator:source=wind for modern wind turbines	
Rendering-man made-windmill-mapnik.png
Willesbourgh Windmill, Ashford, Kent.jpg
man_made	 works	Node Area	 Industrial building to produce something		
Dscf0579-800.jpg
building	 yes	Area	 General tag for buildings - see building=* for more information.	
Rendering-area-building-yes.png
Lipsk - House 02.jpg
man_made	 user defined	Node Way Area	All commonly used values to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Military
Used for facilities and land used by the military, including the Navy, Army, Airforce and Marines. See Military for an introduction.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
military	 airfield	Node Area	 A place where military planes take off and land		
Dscf1158 600.jpg
military	 bunker	Node Area	 Buildings, often build from concrete, to stand even heavier fire. Also WW2 pillboxes.		
Bunker no13.jpg
military	 barracks	Node Area	 Buildings where soldiers live and work.	Key military.JPG	
Oulu barracks Jul-Aug2008 001.jpg
military	 checkpoint	Node Area	 Place of a possible access to a restricted or secured area, where civilian visitors and vehicles will be controled by a military authority.		
Checkpoint Charlie
military	 danger_area	Node Area	 Usually a large marked area around something like a firing range, bombing range, etc which can be an exclusion zone.	
Danger.p.30.png
Edge of the Danger Area - geograph.org.uk - 1298659.jpg
military	 naval_base	Node Area	 A naval base		
Kidd class vs Spruance class.jpg
military	 obstacle_course	Way Area	 A military obstacle course		
US Navy 020423-N-6237W-001 SWAT team training.jpg
military	 range	Node Area	 Where soldiers have practice with their weapons (firing, bombing, artillery, ...).		
Bundeswehr shooting M16.jpg
military	 training_area	Area	 An area where soldiers train and weapons or other military technology are experimented with or are tested.		
Truppenuebungsplatz Warnschild.jpg
military	 user defined	Node Area	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Natural
Used to describes natural physical land features, including ones that have been modified by humans. See Natural for an introduction.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
Vegetation related
natural	 bare_rock	Area	 An area with sparse or no vegetation, so that the bedrock becomes visible.		
Coastal rock formation.jpg
natural	 fell	NodeArea	 Bare upper lying uncultivated land principally covered with grass and often grazed.		
PathSnowmobile.jpg
natural	 grassland	Area	 Where vegetation is dominated by grasses (Poaceae) and other herbaceous (non-woody) plants, except for ornamental grass (see landuse=grass), mowing for hay, etc. (see landuse=meadow) and grazing (see landuse=pasture)	
Natural-Grassland.png
Surface grass.jpg
natural	 heath	NodeArea	 Bare lower lying uncultivated land with bushes but little or no tree cover.
Note. This is not for parks whose name contains the word "heath"

Rendering-area-natural-heath-yellow.png
Lüneburger Heide 080.jpg
natural	 mud	NodeArea	 (Other languages) Undocumented tag. Maybe see natural=wetland + wetland=mud?	
Rendering-natural-mud-mapnik.png
Death 12 bg 082303.jpg
natural	 sand	NodeArea	 Ground coverage of mostly silica particles, with no or very sparse vegetation. See natural=beach as well.	
Rendering-area-sand.png
Kalabrien Ricadi Sandwellen 2129.jpg
natural	 scrub	NodeArea	 Uncultivated land covered with bushes or stunted trees	
Rendering-area-natural-scrub.png
Starr 010831-0015 Morella faya.jpg
natural	 stone	Node	 Freestanding stone; e.g., glacial erratic		
Big rock at saynatsalo.jpg
natural	 tree	Node	 Lone or significant trees.	
Tree2.png
Tree.jpg
natural	 tree_row	Way	 Line of trees.		
Row of Poplar Trees - geograph.org.uk - 242206.jpg
natural	 wetland	NodeArea	 Waterlogged area (on Wikipedia)	
Rendering-area-natural-marsh-osmarender.png
Vatmark.jpg
natural	 wood	NodeArea	 Woodland where timber production does not dominate use. Be aware of landuse=forest.	
Rendering-area-natural-wood.png
Biogradska suma.jpg
Water related
natural	 bay	NodeArea	 A bay, a large body of water partially enclosed by land but with a wide mouth. (Other languages)		
natural	 beach	NodeArea	 A beach, a flat area of sand, gravel or pebble next to water (Other languages)	
Rendering-area-natural-beach.png
Beach.jpg
natural	 coastline	Way	 The mean high water spring line between the sea and land (with the water of on the right side of the way.)	
Rendering-area-natural-coastline.png
Coastline.jpg
natural	 spring	Node	 A place where ground water flows naturally from the ground (Other languages)	
Spring.p.5.png
La Sorgue, Fontaine-de-Vaucluse.JPG
natural	 water	NodeArea	 Lakes, etc.	
Rendering-area-natural-water.png
Natural water.jpg
Mountains related
natural	 arete	Way	 An arête, a thin, almost knife-like, ridge of rock which is typically formed when two glaciers erode parallel U-shaped valleys.		Arête nord du Rateau.jpg
natural	 cave_entrance	NodeArea	 The entrance to a cave.	
Cave-entrance-mapnik.png
Cave entrance.jpg
natural	 cliff	NodeWayArea	 A cliff, a significant vertical, or near vertical, rock exposure (leave the lower face to the right of the way.)	
Cliff2.png
Cliff.jpg
natural	 glacier	NodeArea	 Areas (or peaks) covered with ice throughout the year	
Rendering-Natural glacier OSM.png
Glacier.jpg
natural	 peak	Node	 Top of a hill or mountain (summit)	
OSB Peak.png
Peak.jpg
natural	 ridge	Way	 A ridge		North Ridge of Mount Rohr.jpg
natural	 rock	NodeWay	 Suggested for mapping areas of rocks and small skerries that can be used for navigation or that might be a potential danger for navigation		
natural	 saddle	Node	 Saddle between hills	
Saddle example small.png

(suggested)
Saddle img.png
natural	 scree	NodeArea	 Loose rock		Scree.jpg
natural	 sinkhole	NodeArea	 A natural depression or hole in the surface topography		Rax doline.jpg
natural	 volcano	Node	 A volcano, either dormant, extinct or active	
Volcano 10.png
DenglerSW-Stromboli-20040928-1230x800.jpg
natural	 user defined	NodeArea	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Office
An office is a place of business where administrative or professional work is carried out.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
office	 accountant	Node Area	 An office for an accountant.		
office	 administrative	Node Area	 Local authorities, administrative and supervising institutions that are not related to state government.		
office	 architect	Node Area	 An office for a architect.		
office	 association	Node Area	 Office of a not-for-profit organisation, society, e.g. student,sport,consumer,automobile,bike association...		
office	 camping	Node Area	 An office at a camping or recreational park. Also called reception.		
office	 company	Node Area	 An office for a private company.		
office	 educational_institution	Node Area	 An office for an educational institution.		
office	 employment_agency	Node Area	 An office for a employment agency.		
office	 estate_agent	Node Area	 An office for a estate agent or realtor.		
office	 forestry	Node Area	 forestry office		
office	 foundation	Node Area	 An office for a foundation.		
office	 government	Node Area	 An office for a government agency or department.		
office	 guide	Node Area	 An office for tour guides, mountain guides, dive guides, etc.		
office	 insurance	Node Area	 An office for a insurance company or agent.		
office	 it	Node Area	 An office for an IT specialist.		
office	 lawyer	Node Area	 An office for a lawyer.		
office	 newspaper	Node Area	 The office for a newspaper.		
office	 ngo	Node Area	 An office for a non-government organisation.		
office	 notary	Node Area	 notary's office		
office	 political_party	Node Area	 An office for a political party.		
office	 quango	Node Area	 An office for a quango (quasi-autonomous non-governmental organisation).		
office	 realtor
real_estate_agent	Node Area	 see office=estate agent above.		
office	 register	Node Area	 register office / civil registry office. See also amenity=register_office		
office	 religion	Node Area	 Office of an religion instance. For example: parish office. Use additionally religion=* and denomination=*.		
office	 research	Node Area	 An office for R&D.		
office	 tax	Node Area	 fiscal authorities, tax and revenue office		
office	 telecommunication	Node Area	 Telecommunication company office.		
office	 travel_agent	Node Area	 An office for a travel agent. See also shop=travel_agency.		
office	 user defined	Node Area	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Places
Used mainly to give details about settlements.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
Administratively declared places
place	 country	Node	 See boundary=administrative, admin_level=2		
place	 state	Node Area	 See boundary=administrative, admin_level=* varies; may not be used in all countries.		
place	 region	Node Area	 See boundary=administrative, admin_level=* varies; may not be used in all countries. For natural regions other keys should be searched.		
place	 province	Node Area	 See boundary=administrative, admin_level=* varies; may not be used in all countries.		
place	 district	Node Area	 See boundary=administrative, admin_level=* varies; may not be used in all countries.		
place	 county	Node Area	 See boundary=administrative, admin_level=* varies; may not be used in all countries.		
place	 municipality	Node Area	 See boundary=administrative, admin_level=* varies; depending on the country a collection of arbitrary hamlets, villages and towns may form an administrative unit; sometimes members of a unit reform or join with another municipality as a result of political process. Within a municipality individual settlements are a lot less connected than those within a city, where they have grown connected over time.		
Populated settlements, urban
place	 city	Node Area	 The largest urban settlements in the territory, normally including the national, state and provincial capitals. These are defined by charter or other governmental designation in some territories and are a matter of judgement in others. Should normally have a population of at least 100,000 people and be larger than nearby towns. See place=suburb and place=neighbourhood on how to tag divisions within a city. The outskirts of urban settlements may or may not match the administratively declared boundary of the city.		
place	 borough	Node Area	 See boundary=administrative, depending on the country suburbs in larger cities are often grouped into administrative units called boroughs or city districts; using the value borough avoids name confusion in countries that declare districts within their states or counties.		
place	 suburb	Node Area	 A distinct section of an urban settlement (city, town, etc.) with its own name and identity. e.g.
annexed towns or villages which were formerly independent,
independent (or dependent) municipalities within a city or next to a much bigger town
historical districts of settlements
industrial districts or recreation areas within a settlements with specific names.
place	 quarter	Node Area	 A named part of a bigger settlement where this part is smaller then a suburb and bigger then a neighbourhood. This does not have to be an administrative entity.
The term quarter is sometimes used synonymously for neighbourhood.		
place	 neighbourhood	Node Area	 A named part of a place=village, a place=town or a place=city. Smaller than place=suburb and place=quarter.
The term quarter is sometimes used synonymously for neighbourhood, but may also stand for borough or suburb and hence is often avoided in OSM. See Wikipedia Quarter_(urban_subdivision)		
Populated settlements, urban and rural
place	 town	Node Area	 A second tier urban settlement of local importance, often with a population of 10,000 people and good range of local facilities including schools, medical facilities etc and traditionally a market. In areas of low population, towns may have significantly lower populations. See place=neighbourhood and possibly also place=suburb on how to tag divisions within a town.		
place	 village	Node Area	 A smaller distinct settlement, smaller than a town with few facilities available with people traveling to nearby towns to access these. Populations of villages vary widely in different territories but will nearly always be less than 10,000 people, often a lot less. See place=neighbourhood on how to tag divisions within a larger village.		
place	 hamlet	Node Area	 A smaller rural community typically with less than 100-200 inhabitants, few infrastructure.		
place	 isolated_dwelling	Node Area	 For a named settlement consisting of some two to three households in a secluded rural setting.		
place	 farm	Node Area	 A farm that has its own name. If the farm is not a part of bigger settlement use place=isolated_dwelling. See also landuse=farmyard		
place	 allotments	Node Area	 Dacha or cottage settlement, which is located outside other inhabited locality. This value is used mainly in Russia and other countries of the former Soviet Union, where a lot of such unofficial settlements exist		
Other
place	 continent	Node Area	 One of the seven continents: Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, South America		
place	 archipelago	Relation	 Identifies the relation of an archipelago, which contains several islands and islets.		
place	 island	Area	 Identifies the coastline of an island (> 1 km2), also consider place=islet for very small islands		
place	 islet	Node Area	 Identifies an islet (< 1 km2).		
place	locality	Node Area	 For an unpopulated named place.		
place	 User Defined	Mf node.png Mf area.png	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
Additional attributes
population	 Number	Node Area	 Number of inhabitants of the place. Among other things, it might be used in selecting which name to render at a given zoom level at what font size.		
name	 Text	Node Area	 To define the name of a place.		
place_numbers	 Number	Node Way Area	 Probably better to use the Karlsruhe Schema instead of this tag.		
postal_code	 Text	Node Way Area	 Probably better to use the Karlsruhe Schema instead of this tag.		
reference_point	 yes	Node Way Area	 Named landmarks used to identify locations (common in some countries).		
is_in	 Text	Node Way Area	Optional. Rudimentary way to describe boundary hierarchies, e.g. place=suburb, name=Eccleshall, is_in=Sheffield,South Yorkshire,England,UK. If boundary polygons exist, it's usually not needed. Unless categorization is wrongly done by e.g. Nominatim.		
This section is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Power
Used to map electrical power generation and distributions systems. See Power for further information.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
power	 cable	Way	 A way following the path of underground cables, such as the local 0.4 kV network between transformer stations, distribution boxes and cable connection points, or sea cables. Not to be confused with non-power supply cables such as cables for telecommunication. May be combined with location=underground/underwater/overground.		Power to the People - geograph.org.uk - 560240.jpg
power	 cable_distribution_cabinet	Node	 In these cabinets, the 400-V circuits to the house connections, connection and transfer points of the regional utilities are branched. Other uses include distributions of the municipal street lighting.		Kvs2.jpg
power	 converter	Node	 An HVDC converter converts electric power from high voltage alternating current (AC) to high-voltage direct current (HVDC), or vice-versa.		Pole 2 Thyristor Valve.jpg
power	 generator	Node Area Relation	 A device used to convert power from one form to another. Use in combination with generator:source=*, generator:method=* and generator:output=*.		Eoliennes Gaspesie.jpg
power	 line	Way	 A way following the path of (overground) power cables. For minor power lines with poles and not towers, you may want to use power=minor_line.	Power-tower mapnik.png	Electric transmission lines.jpg
power	 minor_line	Way	 A way following the path of (overground) minor power cables, supported by poles and not towers/pylons. (This isn't quite so simple, as sometimes larger towers are replaced by smaller poles made with a stronger material; a better distinction might be based on voltage.)	Minor line mapnik.jpg	
Pole3.jpg
power	 plant	Area Relation	 A place/industrial facility where power is generated. Use in combination with power=generator.		Huntly Power Station.JPG
power	 pole	Node	 For single (often wooden or concrete) poles carrying medium/low voltage electricity cables.	Minor line mapnik.jpg	
Minor.jpg
power	 substation	Node Area	 A tag for electricity substations. These provide voltage step-up/step-down, switching, conditioning, etc. Substations may be large facilities (up to several acres) for very high voltage transmission lines or just small buildings or kiosks near the street for low voltage distribution lines.	380kv-bleiswijk-mapnik.png	Substation.jpg
power	 switch	Node	 A tag for electricity switches which are devices which allow operators to power up & down lines and transformer in substations or outside.		French overhead power switch pole.jpg
power	 tower	Node	 For towers or pylons carrying high voltage electricity cables. Normally constructed from steel latticework but tubular or solid pylons are also commonly used. Should not be used for medium or low voltage electricity conductors carried on single wooden poles which might be tagged power=pole. See power=tower for detailed tagging of tower types.	Power-tower mapnik.png	Benkid77 Puddington-Shotwick footpath 24 110809.JPG
power	 transformer	Node	 A static device for transferring electric energy by inductive coupling between its windings. Large power transformers are typically located inside substations		Trafostation Alter Hellweg IMGP4722.jpg
cables	 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, 12, ...	Way	 Number of power-carrying cables represented by this way. The power line on the photo (click on it to see more details) has 6 double cables (the cable on top does not carry power) and thus may be tagged as cables=6 and wires=double.		Power-tower.JPG
circuits	 1, 2, 3, ...	Way	 Number of electrical circuits represented by this way. The tag may be used when the number of physical cables is unknown (often the case for underground cable connections) or when the number of circuits is different from cables=* divided by 3. The photo shows a power line that connects to a cable connection having two circuits and thus may be tagged as circuits=2		Onder- en bovengronds.jpg
tunnel	 yes	Way	 Notes that a line or cable is contained in a self-supporting tunnel that may also be used for other purposes such as road traffic or be provided for maintenance purposes. Cables buried underground should not use this tag but be tagged as power=cable and location=underground/underwater/..		
voltage	 ...,
110000,
220000,
380000,
...	Way	 Voltage of the power line.		Tower reference sign.jpg
wires	 single, double, triple, quad	Way	 Number of wires per power cable. "single" (1), "double" (2), "triple" (3) or "quad" (4). The photo shows an example of "double".		Twin-bundle.jpg
power	 User Defined	Mf node.png Mf way.png Mf area.png	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Public Transport
Features related to public transport. See Public transport for further information on mapping railway stations, bus stops and services etc.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
public_transport	 platform	Mf node.png Mf way.png Mf area.png	 The place where passengers are waiting for the transportation vehicle.	Bus platform.png	
Bayview trstwy.jpg
public_transport	 station	Mf area.png	 A station where several buses or trains end their service. Used in combination with building=yes or area=yes.		
Manchester Piccadilly Bus Station.jpg
public_transport	 stop_position	Mf node.png	 The position on the street or rails where a bus, tram or train stops.		
Bus prumyslova.jpg
public transport	 user defined	Node Area	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Railway
Includes all kind of railway from heavy used mainline railway down to an abandoned line. See Railways for an introduction to mapping railways.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
Track
railway	 abandoned	Way	 The course of a former railway which has been abandoned and the track and infrastucture removed. The course may be still recognized through embankments, cuttings, bridges, tunnel and rolling or straight ways.		
Abbey Barn Lane Bridge, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire.jpg
railway	 construction	Way	 A railway under construction. See construction=* and the construction=yes proposal Proposed_features/Construction		
Verlegen FF Rheda.jpg
railway	 disused	Way	 A section of railway which is no longer used but where the track and infrastructure remains in place. See disused=yes for alternative tagging.	Rendering-railway disused.png	
Disused railtrack 101 5351.jpg
railway	 funicular	Way	 Cable driven inclined railways. In many cases they serve touristic interest, giving easy access to spectacular mountain views.	Rendering funicular.jpg	
Vilnius funicular.jpg
railway	 light_rail	Way	 A higher-standard tram system, normally in its own right-of-way. Often it connects towns and thus reaches a considerable length (tens of kilometer).		Pittsburgh LRT 4305 47L Gateway to Library April 2008.jpg
railway	 miniature	Way	Miniature railways are narrower than narrow gauge and carry passengers. They can be found in parks.	
Mini-railway-mapnik.png
3871553552 f2204c3d83 o.jpg
railway	 monorail	Way	 A railway with only a single rail. A monorail can run above the rail like in Las Vegas and Disneyland or can suspend below the rail like the Wuppertal Schwebebahn (Germany)		
Monorail in Kuala Lumpur
railway	 narrow_gauge	Way	 Narrow-gauge passenger or freight trains. Narrow gauge railways can have mainline railway service like the Rhaetian Railway in Switzerland or can be a small light industrial railway. Use gauge=* to specify the actual width of rails.	Rendering narrow gauge.jpg	
Narrow gauge.jpg
railway	 preserved	Way	 A railway running historic trains, usually a tourist attraction (changed to preserved from preserved_rail as "rail" is redundant).	
Railway preserved rendered.PNG
Railway preserved.jpg
railway	 rail	Way	 Full sized passenger or freight trains in the standard gauge for the country or state	Mapping-Features-Railroad-With-Station.png	LGV Est PK217.jpg
railway	 subway	Way	 A city passenger rail service running mostly grade separated (see Wikipedia:rapid transit).		
800px-Madrid - Estación Marqués de Vadillo - 20060910.jpg
railway	 tram	Way	 One or two carriage rail vehicles, usually sharing motor road (Other languages)	Mapping-Features-Tram-With-Halt.png	Praha, Hloubetín, Lehovec, tram KT8D5.JPG
Additional features
bridge	 yes	Way	 If the railway goes over a street, waterway or other railway.	
Railway bridge mapnick render.jpg
Railway bridge.jpg
cutting	 yes	Way	 A section where the railway is significantly lower than ground level		
Railways cutting.jpg
electrified	 contact_line / rail / yes / no	Way	 contact_line: a power line over the train head
rail: a third rail near the track supplying the train with power
yes: electrified track, but no details available
no: track with no power supply		Overhead power lines.jpg
embankment	 yes	Way	 A section where the railway is raised significantly higher than ground level		Railway embankment.jpg
frequency	 number [kHz/MHz/GHz]	Way	 The frequency with which a line is electrified. Use 0 for DC. Also see the voltage tag.		
service	 siding	Way	 Relatively short lengths of track, running parallel to (and connected to) a main route		
service	 spur	Way	 Relatively short lengths of track, built to give one company or entity access to a main or branch line.		
service	 yard	Way	 Tracks within railway company operated marshaling or maintenance yards		
tracks	 number	Way	 Number of parallel tracks in close proximity when mapped as a single way. If not given means unknown and defaults to 1. In many parts of the world the tracks are being drawn out separately so that there is more detail, in which case this tag isn't used.		
tunnel	 yes	Way	 If the railway goes below ground. Should be always present on subways.		Haywards Heath tunnel.jpg
usage	 main / branch / freight / industrial / military / tourism	Way	
main line: heavy traffic 
branch line: connecting places with a mainline 
freight: freight service only 
industrial: servicing large plants (iron, chemical etc.), surface mining, ... 
military: servicing military area 
tourism: most mountain rails (rack-rails, funicular) and preserved railways.

voltage	 number	Way	 The voltage with which a line is electrified. Also see the frequency tag.		
Stations and Stops
railway	 halt	Node	 A small station, may not have a platform, trains may only stop on request.	Mapping-Features-Tram-With-Halt.png	
Railway halt.jpg
public_transport	 platform	Node Way Area	 This is parallel to the rail line for showing where the actual platforms are. It is also to know where you can change platform and enter the station, so use footpaths to connect them. This is really useful for routing too.		
Dscf0807-800.jpg
railway	 station	Node Area	 Railway station (Other languages).	Mapping-Features-Railroad-With-Station.png	
Paddington Station.jpg
railway	 subway_entrance	Node	 The entrance to a subway station, usually going from surface to underground.		
Madrid-metro-1.jpg
railway	 tram_stop	Node	 A tram stop is a place where a passenger can embark / disembark a tram.	
Rendering-railway-tram stop-mapnik.png.png
Dscf1400-600.jpg
Other
railway	 buffer_stop	Node	 stops the train at the end of a track. see Buffer_stop		
Stootblok (staal).jpg
railway	 derail	Node	 a device used to prevent fouling of a rail track by unauthorized movements of trains or unattended rolling stock. See Derail_(railroad)		
US derail detail.JPG
railway	 crossing	Node	 A point where pedestrians may cross.		Dscf1407-600.jpg
railway	 level_crossing	Node	 A point where rails and roads cross.	
Rendering-railway-level crossing-mapnik.png
Level crossing - Chertsey - England - 270404.jpg
landuse	 railway	Area	 Ground used around railways and railway-stations		
Illustration of Rail.jpg
railway	 switch	Node	 Full Connections between railways (aka 'points')		Railway switch.JPG
railway	 turntable	Node Area	 These are used for changing the direction that part of a train is pointing in.		
Turntable of Railroad 001.jpg
railway	 roundhouse	Area	 A semicircular building with many stalls for servicing engines.		
5843873292 81e16dea1f z d.jpg
railway	 user defined	Node Way	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Route
Used to describe routes of many kinds. See also Relation:route.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
route	 bicycle	Way Relation	Cycle routes explains how to tag cycle routes		
route	 bus	Way Relation	 The route a public bus service takes. See Buses		
route	 canoe	Way Relation	 Route for canoeing through a waterway.		
route	 detour	Way	 Route for fixed detour routes. Examples are Bedarfsumleitung in Germany and uitwijkroute in the Netherlands		
route	 ferry	Way Relation	 The route a ferry takes from terminal to terminal Please make sure to add at least one node per tile (zoom level 12), better at least one every few km, so offline editors catch it with bbox requests.	
Ferry route mapnik.png
route	 hiking	Way Relation	Hiking explains how to tag hiking routes		
route	 mtb	Way	Mountain biking explains how to tag mtb routes		
route	 pipeline	Way	 For pipelines, pipeline markers, and pipeline stations		
route	 piste	Relation	 Proposed for the routes of pistes (e.g., snowshoe or XC-Ski trails) in winter sport areas.		
Snowshoe trail.jpg
route	 power	Way	 where power lines use the same towers (the same way)		
route	 railway	Way Relation	 A sequence of railway ways, often named (e.g., Channel Tunnel). See Railways		
route	 road	Way Relation	 Can be used to map various road routes/long roads		
route	 ski	Way	 For ski tracks (e.g., XC-Ski Trails User:Langläufer/Loipemap)		
route	 train	Way Relation	 Train services (e.g., London-Paris Eurostar) See Railways		
route	 tram	Way Relation	 See Trams for more information on tagging tram services		
route	 user defined	Node Area	Tag statistic according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Shop
A shop is a place of business stocked with goods for sale. See Shops for more details.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
Food, Beverages
shop	 alcohol	Node Area	 Government owned or licensed shop selling alcohol. See also shop=beverages.		
Liquor store in Breckenridge Colorado.jpg
shop	 bakery	Node Area	 Selling bread	
Shop bakery.p.16.png
Bread in Boudin.jpg
shop	 beverages	Node Area	 Shop focused on selling alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. See also shop=alcohol.		
Coca Cola Kisten.jpg
shop	 butcher	Node Area	 Selling meat	
Butcher-shop.png
Butcher's shop Hong kong.jpg
shop	 cheese	Node Area	 Selling cheese		
shop	 chocolate	Node Area	 Selling chocolate		
shop	 confectionery	Node Area	 A shop selling sweets or candy		
Sweet Shop, Chester.JPG
shop	 convenience	Node Area	 A small local shop carrying a small subset of the items you would find in a supermarket	
Shop convenience.p.16.png
Food and wine shop.jpg
shop	 deli	Node Area	 A shop selling delicatessen (fine foods), possibly also fine wine.		
shop	 farm	Node Area	 A shop or roadside stand that sells freshly harvested farm produce	
Apple 16x16.png
Chatsworth farm shop - geograph.org.uk - 24050.jpg
shop	 greengrocer	Node Area	 Selling vegetables and fruits.		
Greenrocer's Interior.jpg
shop	 organic	Node Area	 A shop selling organic food. Alternatively you can use the more versatile organic=* in combination with a general shop=* key (In this case: shop=supermarket or shop=convenience).		
Hofladen-Dottenfelderhof-Bad-Vilbel-27042005.jpg
shop	 pasta	Node Area	 A shop selling (fresh) pasta, ravioli, etc.		
Ravioli 2.jpg
shop	 seafood / fish	Node Area	 A shop selling fish/seafood.		Seafood chijin.jpg
shop	 tea	Node Area	 A tea shop.		
Tea shop by matsuyuki in Nishiki Ichiba, Kyoto.jpg
General store, department store, mall
shop	 department_store	Node Area	 A single large store - often multiple storeys high - selling a large variety of goods (see also shop=mall)	
Department store.p.16.png
Takeshimaya Times Square in the evening.jpg
shop	 general	Node Area	 A store that carries a general line of merchandise. (see also shop=convenience if it sells food).		
Feinkost Weber Hernals 1994.jpg
shop	 kiosk	Node Area	 A small shop on the pavement that sells magazines, tobacco, newspapers, sweets and stamps.		
Kiosk germany.jpg
shop	 mall	Mf node.pngMf area.png	 A shopping mall - multiple stores under one roof (also known as a shopping centre)		
Dalian large Shopping Mall 2005.jpg
shop	 supermarket	Node Area	 Supermarket	
Shop supermarket.p.16.png
Supermarket check out.JPG
Clothing, shoes, accessories
shop	 baby_goods	Node Area	 A shop that sells objects for babies (clothes, prams, cots, toys).		
Baby care shop2.jpg
shop	 bag	Node Area	 A shop that sells bags		
shop	 boutique	Node Area	 A small shopping outlet, especially one that specializes in elite and fashionable items		
shop	 clothes	Node Area	 A shop selling clothes (other related value in use is fashion)	
Shop clothes.p.16.png
Hasseen2.jpg
shop	 fabric	Node Area	 A shop that sells fabric and other materials for the purpose of making clothes and other products, eg dress making.		
Shop fabric.JPG
shop	 jewelry	Node Area	 Jewellers shops.		
Bijouterie.jpg
shop	 shoes	Node Area	 Selling shoes.		
Shoes.JPG
Discount store, charity
shop	 charity	Node Area	 A charity shop is a shop operated by a charity, for the purposes of fundraising.		
Cancer Research, Armagh, November 2009.JPG
shop	 second_hand	Node Area	 A shop buying and selling used clothes and other things. See also shop=pawnbroker		
HK Sheung Wan 2nd hand market Tung Street ????.JPG
shop	 variety_store	Node Area	 A variety store retailer is a retail store that sells inexpensive items, sometimes with a single price point for all items in the store.		
100-Emon.jpg
Health and Beauty
shop	 beauty	Node Area	 A non-hairdresser beauty shop, spa, nail salon, etc.. See also shop=hairdresser.		
Hair and Beauty, Strabane, January 2010.JPG
shop	 chemist	Node Area	 A shop selling articles of personal hygiene, cosmetics, and household cleaning products (for a shop that potentially dispenses prescription drugs, cf. pharmacy. U.S. drug store, see amenity=pharmacy)		
Kelly Chemist, Omagh - geograph.org.uk - 103193.jpg
shop	drugstore	 -	 This tag is discouraged. Please use either shop=chemist (if they sell prescription-free drugs, cosmetics, household cleaning products, etc.) or amenity=pharmacy (if they offer prescription drugs).		
shop	 erotic	Node Area	 A shop for erotictoys, -clothes or other eroticstuff.		
Sex shops (Paris)-01.jpg
shop	 hairdresser	Node Area	 Here you can get your hair cut, coloured, ... See also shop=beauty	
Shop hairdresser.p.16.png
Belfast (187), October 2009.JPG
shop	 hearing_aids	Node Area	 A shop specialized in selling hearing aids devices		
Shop audiologist.jpg
shop	 herbalist	Node Area	 A shop specialized in selling herbs, often for medical purposes		
shop	 massage	Mf node.pngMf area.png	 A massage shop		
Thaimassage.jpg
shop	 optician	Node Area	 A shop that sells eyeglasses, contact lenses (may also check your eyes).		
US Navy 021029-N-3228G-001 Adjusting a customer's eyeglasses.jpg
shop	 tattoo	Node Area	 A tattoo parlour.		
Tattoo-by-grisha-maslov.jpg
Do-it-yourself, household goods, building materials, gardening products
shop	 bathroom_furnishing	Node Area	 Selling bathroom furniture and accessories		
shop	 doityourself	Node Area	 A shop that sells tools and supplies to do-it-yourself householders, gardening, ...	
Shop diy.p.16.png
shop	 florist	Node Area	 Get your bouquet of flowers from here (see shop=garden_centre for potted flowers).	
Florist.p.16.png
Butler's Wharf Flower Shop.jpg
shop	 furnace	Node Area	 A shop for furnances and ovens		
shop	 garden_centre	Node Area	 Selling potted flowers, maybe even trees (see also shop=florist for flower bouquets).		
Almondsbury.garden.centre.arp.jpg
shop	 gas	Node Area	 A shop where technical gas, such as argon, oxygen, acetylene, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, etc can be purchased in bottles		
2008-07-24 Bundle of compressed gas bottles.jpg
shop	 glaziery	Node Area	 Selling and installing glazing for windows and doors.		
shop	 hardware	Node Area	 A shop that sells building supplies including screws, bolts & paints, ... See also shop=doityourself		Tweedy and Popp 03.jpg
shop	 houseware	Node Area	 A shop that sells crockery, cutlery, kitchenware, small household appliances.		
shop	 locksmith	Node Area	 A shop that sells keys, see also craft=locksmith and craft=key_cutter		
shop	 paint	Node Area	 A shop where you can buy paints.		
Artists paints.jpg
shop	 trade	Node Area	 A place of business that specifically sells one or more building supplies such as timber/wood, cement etc. See also shop=doityourself		
Furniture and Interior
shop	 antiques	Node Area	 Retail store specializing in the selling of antiques.		
shop	 bed	Node Area	 A shop that specalises in selling mattresses and other bedding products.		
Bed Shop, Omagh - geograph.org.uk - 129722.jpg
shop	 candles	Node Area	 A shop primarily selling candles and candle accessories (holders, etc)		
shop	 carpet	Node Area	 A shop selling carpets		
shop	 curtain	Node Area	 Shop that specalises in selling curtains or drapes (see also shop=fabric)		
Commerciante di tessuti.jpg
shop	 furniture	Node Area	 Selling furniture, might range from small decorational items to a whole flat interieur		
shop	 interior_decoration	Node Area	 Shop for interior decorations.		
shop	 kitchen	Node Area	 A shop where you can plan and buy your kitchen. (Sometimes called "kitchen studio" and the like, but plain kitchen is the most frequently used tag so far.)		
shop	 window_blind	Node Area	 A shop that sells window blinds.		
Some window blinds.JPG
Electronics
shop	 computer	Node Area	 A shop selling computers, peripherals, software, ...		
Computer shop, Crossens.JPG
shop	 electronics	Node Area	 Selling consumer electronics (TV, radio, ...). Larger ones may also sell computers, fridges, ...		
shop	 hifi	Node Area	 A shop that sells High Fidelity or High End environment to listen music or watch films at home		
JB Hi-Fi Wagga Wagga.jpg
shop	 mobile_phone	Node Area	 A shop that primarily sells mobile phones and accessories		
3G Mobile Phones fot China Mobile.jpg
shop	 radiotechnics	Node Area	 A shop selling electronic components, electrical products, radio measuring devices, supplies for radio and electronics.		
shop	 vacuum_cleaner	Node Area	 A shop that specalises in the sale of vacuum cleaners and associated products.		
Panasonic MCE8013 vacuum cleaner close.jpg
Outdoors and Sport, Vehicles
shop	 bicycle	Node Area	 A shop that sells bicycles, bicycle equipment and may rent or repair them	
Shop bicycle.png
ShopBicycle.jpg
shop	 car	Node Area	 Car store - a place to buy cars or to get your car repaired	
Purple-car.svg
Dscf1411-800.jpg
shop	 car_repair	Node Area	 A shop focused on car repair (usually independent of a specific car brand).	
Shopping car repair.p.16.png
Colourful Shops Places In Onehunga II.jpg
shop	 car_parts	Node Area	 Shop for auto parts, auto accessories, motor oil, car chemicals, etc.		
shop	 dive	Node Area	 Shop where you can buy or rent diving equipment.		
Dive shop, Babbacombe - geograph.org.uk - 224395.jpg
shop	 fishing	Node Area	 shop where to buy fishing equipment.		
shop	 free_flying	Node Area	 shop where to buy free_flying equipment.		
shop	 hunting	Node Area	 Shop where you can buy gun and hunting equipment.		
Bass Pro Shops entrance.JPG
shop	 motorcycle	Node Area	 A shop that sells motorcycles and/or related accessories, clothes, parts, repair and rental services.		
KAWASAKI KLR 650.JPG
shop	 outdoor	Node Area	 A shop that sells camping, walking, climbing, and other outdoor sports equipment (GPSes, etc.)		
shop	 sports	Node Area	 A shop selling sporting goods.		
HK TST East Mody Road Wing On Plaza Shop Kettler Sport Fitness.JPG
Art, music, hobbies
shop	 art	Node Area	 A private art gallery which sells works of art.		
Art Mur Installation Jinny Yu.jpg
shop	 craft	Node Area	 An arts and crafts supply store. Commonly sold items are paper, canvas, paint, pencils, crafting wood, crafting tools, etc. - look at craft=*		
shop	 frame	Node Area	 A shop where you can buy frames.		
Framed Madhubani art in a shop.jpg
shop	 music	Node Area	 where music is purchased (vinyl/CDs/...)		
Music shop.JPG
shop	 musical_instrument	Node Area	 A shop where you can buy musical instruments, lyrics, scores.		
Portadown (66), September 2009.JPG
shop	 video	Node Area	 A shop that sells or rents out videos/DVDs.		
Video shop.jpg
shop	 video_games	Node Area	 A shop selling video games.		
Stationery, gifts, books, newspapers
shop	 anime	Node Area	 Specials shops for anime stuff.		
shop	 books	Node Area	 Selling books (for a library that lends books, see amenity=library)		
Strand basement jeh.jpg
shop	 gift	Node Area	 Selling gifts, greeting cards, or tourist gifts (souvenirs)		
Gift shop interior.jpg
shop	 newsagent	Node Area	 Shop selling newspapers, cigarettes, other goods		HK Sheung Wan Po Yan Street 7-11 Shop Newspaper Stand.JPG
shop	 stationery	Node Area	 A shop selling office supplies		center
shop	 ticket	Node Area	 A ticket shop or box office. Sells tickets for concerts, events, public transport, ...		
Box office of Shosha station.jpg
Others
shop	 copyshop	Node Area	 A shop that offers photocopying and printing services.		
HK ?? Sheung Wan ??? Jervois Street 24 photo copy print co shop.JPG
shop	 dry_cleaning	Node Area	 A shop or kiosk offering a clothes dry cleaning service. The actual cleaning may be done elsewhere.		
Dry clean rack.jpg
shop	 funeral_directors	Node Area	 Providing services related to funeral arrangements, may also be known as a "funeral parlour" or "undertakers".		
JapaneseFuneralArrangementTokyo.jpg
shop	 laundry	Node Area	 A shop to get your normal clothes washed. Might be self service coin operated, with service staff for drop off, ...	
Shop-laundry-icon.png
Polarstern laundry hg.jpg
shop	 money_lender	Node Area	 A money lender offers small personal loans at high rates of interest.		
shop	 pawnbroker	Node Area	 A pawnbroker (or pawnshop) is an individual or business that offers secured loans to people. See also shop=second_hand		
Pawnbroker Oulu 20090906.JPG
shop	 pet	Node Area	 A shop for pets, animals and toys or food for them.		
Baby parrots in a pet shop-8a.jpg
shop	 pyrotechnics	Node Area	 Store of pyrotechnics: fireworks, firecrackers, sparklers etc.		
shop	 religion	Node Area	 Store of religious articles, church shop. See also religion=*		
shop	 tobacco	Node Area	 A shop selling tobacco, cigarettes and their related accessories.		
Bundesarchiv B 145 Bild-F009687-0007, Wuppertal, Einzelhandel, Tabakladen.jpg
shop	 toys	Node Area	 A toy store.		
HK Toys R Us.JPG
shop	 vacant	Node Area	 Don't use this anymore - a vacancy is not a shop and should not show up on maps as a shop. Use disused:shop=* instead. Not deleting a shop that has been closed can be useful to avoid confusing other mappers who may not know about this (please leave a note=*). Then you can keep the corresponding object and simply edit it when a new shop opens on the same spot.		
shop	 weapons	Node Area	 Store of weapons: Knifes, guns etc.		
Other values
shop	 user defined	Node Area	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Sport
Use to provide information about which sports are placed on a facility such as a pitch or stadium. Use in conjunction with landuse=* or leisure=*.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
sport	 9pin	Node Area	 9-pin Bowling (on Wikipedia) - bowling game played in Europe with only 9 pins		
Kegeln-Kugel.jpg
sport	 10pin	Node Area	 10-pin Bowling (on Wikipedia)		
Bowling.JPG
sport	 american_football	Node Area	 American Football. Tag introduced June 2010 in preference to use of the confusing sport=football		
Shea Smith-edit1.jpg
sport	 aikido	Node Area	 Aikido (on Wikipedia)	
Aikido pictogram.svg
Shihonage.jpg
sport	 archery	Node Area	 The different variations of this sport can be specified by also adding a type=* tag. Values for this type=* tag are e.g.: FITA, field, 3D, ... See also Archery on Wikipedia		
Mcroriz2.JPG
sport	 athletics	Node Area	 Track and field athletics. A collection of sports events that involve throwing and jumping (on Wikipedia).
for running tracks better use running		
Silke Spiegelburg Berlin 2009.jpg
sport	 australian_football	Node Area	 Australian Rules Football. A team sport played between two teams of 18 players with a ball on large oval shaped grass fields (often also used as a cricket ground), with four goal posts at each end.(on Wikipedia)		
Aussie rules kicking.jpg
sport	 base	Node Way	 Buildings, Antennae, Span & Earth. A more down to earth approach to parachuting (on Wikipedia)		
Hio.jpg
sport	 badminton	Node Area	 An indoor sport played with a shuttlecock and racquet, played as singles or in teams of two (on Wikipedia).		
Badminton Semifinal Pan 2007.jpg
sport	 baseball	Node Area	 An outdoor bat-and-ball sport contested by two teams of nine players each on a large grass pitch (on Wikipedia)		
Baseball swing.jpg
sport	 basketball	Node Area	 Basketball, very popular in the USA and the Philippines (on Wikipedia)		
Basketball through the hoop.JPG
sport	 beachvolleyball	Node Area	beachvolleyball on Wikipedia		
Beach volleyball from zh.JPG
sport	 bmx	Node Area	BMX on Wikipedia.		
BMX racing action photo.jpg
sport	 boules	Node Area	 A collective name for games played with metal balls, popular in France (on Wikipedia).
The different variations of this sport can be specified by also adding a type=* tag. Values for this type=* tag are e.g.: petanque, lyonnaise, extreme, ...

Boules set.jpg
sport	 bowls	Node Area	 A place where you can play lawn bowls/lawn bowling		
Lawn Bowling.jpg
sport	 boxing	Node Area	 Boxing (Olympic discipline)		
Boxing080905 photoshop.jpg
sport	 canadian_football	Node Area	 Canadian Football		
Canadian football.jpg
sport	 canoe	Node Area	 Canoeing (both canadian and kayaks)	
Canoe.gif
Canoe.jpg
sport	 chess	Node Area	 Chess (on Wikipedia) - here mostly intended: big chess-boards in the open air		
OutdoorChess.jpg
sport	 cliff_diving	Node Area	 jumping from a cliff or a rock into water		
Mazatlan Diver Sequence.jpg
sport	 climbing	Node Area	 Rock climbing - natural or artificial climbs (climbing walls) (on Wikipedia)		
Dscf0658 600.jpg
sport	 cricket	Node Area	 A bat-and-ball sport contested by two teams, usually of eleven players, each on a large grass pitch (on Wikipedia)		
Cricket Bat.jpg
sport	 cricket_nets	Node Area	 Cricket nets for practice used by batsmen and bowlers to warm up and/or improve their cricketing techniques. (on Wikipedia)		
Pollock in nets.jpg
sport	 croquet	Node Area	 A game played between 2 or more players on a small grass pitch hitting wooden or plastic balls with a mallet through hoops embedded into the grass. (on Wikipedia)		
Croquet modern.jpg
sport	 cycling	Node Area			
Fabian Wegmann 03.jpg
sport	 dog_racing	Node Area			
Greyhound Dogs entering the trap boxes in the Macau caninodrome(Macau)2005..jpg
sport	 fencing	Node Area	fencing on Wikipedia		
0408 USA Olympic fencing.jpg
sport	 equestrian	Node Area	 Equestrianism, sports involving the skill of riding or driving horses (on Wikipedia).
Often associated internationally with show jumping and dressage, but also including endurance riding, eventing, reining, tent pegging, vaulting, polo, horse racing, driving, rodeo and more.

See also sport=horse_racing

Evie Gullis Jumping Her Horse.JPG
sport	football		DO NOT USE THIS TAG, as it is ambiguous. Use: soccer, rugby_league, rugby_union, australian_football, ...		
sport	 free_flying	Node Way Area	 Paragliding/Hanggliding/... takeoff, landings, towing, etc. and related amenities and properties		
Pente ecole parapente.jpg
sport	 gaelic_games	Node Area	 Gaelic games such as Hurling, Gaelic Football, Camogie, predominantly played in Ireland.
For tagging individual games under this category see the tag page.

Hurling sport - Taking a swing.jpg
sport	 golf	Node Area	 for golf courses, use leisure=golf_course	
Sport-golf.png
D.A.Weibring.jpg
sport	 gymnastics	Node Area			
Acro-tcd.JPG
sport	 hockey	Node Area			
Field hockey.jpg

Eishockey Eisbaeren gegen Capitals.jpg
sport	 horseshoes	Node Area	horseshoes on Wikipedia		
Horseshoes Modern.jpg
sport	 horse_racing	Node Area			
Racing at Ruidoso Downs.jpg
sport	 ice_stock	Node Area	 Use with: leisure=pitch. Eisstockschießen on Wikipedia		
Icestock.jpg
sport	 judo	Node Area	 Judo (Olympic discipline)		
Haraigoshi.jpg
sport	 karting	Node Area	 For a description of this motor sport, see: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kart_racing . When used together with highway=raceway then please add also area=no, otherwise the raceway is not rendered.		
Kart Racing 1.jpg
sport	 kitesurfing	Node Area	 For a description of this water sport, see: Kitesurfing on Wikipedia		
sport	 korfball	Node Area	 (korfball on Wikipedia)		
Korfball.jpg
sport	 motor	Node Area			
Brucewinning.jpg
sport	 multi	Node Area			
sport	 obstacle_course	Way Area	 (Obstacle course). A series of challenging physical obstacles an individual or team must navigate usually while being timed.		
Hinderbanan.jpg
sport	 orienteering	Node Area	 (Orienteering club or centre). Navigation sport with Map and compass.		
Orienteering.jpg
sport	 paddle_tennis	Node Area	 (paddle_tennis on Wikipedia)		
Paddle tennis.jpg
sport	 paragliding	Node Area	 Paragliding takeoff or landing site (paragliding on Wikipedia)	
Air sports pictogram.svg
Virage à la sellette.jpg
sport	 pelota	Node Area	 Spanish Groupname for a number of ball games (Baseball, Basque pelota, Bocce, Jai alai, Valencian pilota). (pelota on Wikipedia)		
Ustaritz Fronton Pala.jpg
sport	 racquet	Node Area	 Group name of sports that are played with a racquet		
Racquetball-racquet-and-bal.jpg
sport	 rowing	Node Area	 (rowing on Wikipedia)		
Daniel Lyons and Robert Espeseth of the US Olympic rowing team.JPEG
sport	 rugby_league	Node Area	 One of the two codes of rugby football, split from rugby union in 1895, along with subsequent rule changes		
Lance hohaia running into the defence (rugby league).jpg
sport	 rugby_union	Node Area	 Rugby union is a full contact team sport, a form of football which originated in England in the early 19th century.		
Senegal rugby.jpg
sport	 running	Node Way Area	 Running		
800m at 2011 German Athletics Championships.jpg
sport	 scuba_diving	Node Area			
Diving - scubadiver.JPG
sport	 shooting	Node Area	 outdoor or indoor shooting range		
050607 M 5900L 044.jpg
sport	 skating	Node Area	 ice skating	
Ice skating icon.svg
Icerink2.jpg
sport	 skateboard	Node Area			
SkateboardThumbnail.jpg
sport	 skiing	Node Area	 This tag isn't well documented, and it's usage is unclear. I would better recommand the use of the Proposed_features/Piste_Maps Project for things related to skiing		
Esquiant.JPG
sport	 soccer	Node Area	 Association football, more commonly known as football or soccer, a team sport played between two teams of eleven players (on Wikipedia). Note: While called "football" (fussball, fotball, ...) in many countries, it is best to tag it as "soccer" to avoid confusion with other usages of "football"	
Sport-soccer.png
Billiken soccer.jpg
sport	 surfing	Node Area	 (surfing on Wikipedia)	
Surfing.svg
Surfergirl.jpg
sport	 swimming	Node Area		
Sport-swimming.png
KingdomGames07 02.jpg
sport	 table_tennis	Node Area			
Pingpong equip.jpg
sport	 taekwondo	Node Area	 Taekwondo (Olympic discipline)		
Taekwondo Fight 01.jpg
sport	 team_handball	Node Area	(Team) handball on Wikipedia	
Handball.png
Women Handball.jpg
sport	 tennis	Node Area	 Tennis courts	
Sport-tennis.png
Yes NCTU tennis 2.JPG
sport	 toboggan	Node Way Area	 public sledding run; see also Piste Map Proposal (piste:type=sled, piste:difficulty=advanced, piste:lit=yes)		
Kohn 4menbobsled 2005-11-02.jpg
sport	 volleyball	Node Area	volleyball on Wikipedia		
Volleyball game.jpg
sport	 water_ski	Node Way Area	 Waterskiing: either on a cable ski course, or pulled by a boat.		
Water skiing 0757.jpg
sport	 weightlifting	Node Area	 Weightlifting (Olympic discipline)		
Weightlifting.jpg
sport	 wrestling	Node Area	 Wrestling (Olympic discipline)		
Wrestling dsc03566.jpg
sport	 user defined	Node Area	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Tourism
Used to map places and things of specific interest to tourists: places to see, places to stay, things and places providing support. See Key:tourism for more information. See Tourism for a general introduction.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
tourism	 alpine_hut	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A remote building located in the mountains intended to provide board and lodging.	
Alpinehut.p.16.png
Ascher Hütte a.jpg
tourism	 attraction	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A general tourism attraction, this tag is often used in addition with other tags (like historic=*).	
Rendering-area-tourism-attraction.png
tourism	 artwork	Mf node.png Mf way.png Mf area.png	 A tag for public pieces of art.		
Begynnelse-4.jpg
tourism	 camp_site	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where people can camp overnight, using tents or camper vans or caravans.	
Camping.n.16.png
2009-07-26 Ekeberg Camping.JPG
tourism	 caravan_site	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where you can park a caravan overnight or for longer periods.	
Caravan park.p.24.png
Caravan Site, Stonehaven - geograph.org.uk - 156173.jpg
tourism	 chalet	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Rent a hut (see chalet)	
Chalet.p.16.png
Chalets - geograph.org.uk - 37944.jpg
tourism	 gallery	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Art galleries are a popular visitor attraction		
2012-09-02 Gemaeldegalerie Berlin anagoria.JPG
tourism	 guest_house	Mf node.png Mf area.png	Guest house. Accommodation without hotel license that is typically owner-operated, offers a room and breakfast with staff not available 24/7, ranging from purpose-built guest houses to family-based Bed&Breakfast.	
Guest house.p.16.png
The Crossroads Country Guest House - geograph.org.uk - 88520.jpg
tourism	 hostel	Mf node.png Mf area.png	Hostel.	
Hostel.p.20.png
Dorm Room 1.jpg
tourism	 hotel	Mf node.png Mf area.png	Hotel.	
Hotel2.p.20.png
Hcom 1097758 7 b.jpg
tourism	 information	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Information resource for tourists and visitors. To additionally describe the kind of information use information=*.	
Information.p.16.png
Fleetwood tourist information centre - DSC06596.JPG
tourism	 motel	Mf node.png Mf area.png	Motel.	
Motel.p.20.png
Dscf0759 600.jpg
tourism	 museum	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Museum.	
Museum.p.16.png
Louvre-facade-est.jpg
tourism	 picnic_site	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A place where you can have an outdoor picnic. May have facilities such as tables and benches.		
Picnic site.jpg
tourism	 theme_park	Mf node.png Mf area.png	Theme park or amusement park without theme.		
Theme park.jpg
tourism	 viewpoint	Mf node.png	 A place, often high, with a good view of surrounding countryside or notable buildings, lookout. Sometimes called a vista point or scenic area/point.	
View point.p.16.png
Viewpoint.jpg
tourism	 wilderness_hut	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 A remote building with fireplace intended to provide shelter and sleeping accommodation.		
Alpe scaredi.jpg
tourism	 zoo	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 Zoological garden.	
Zoo.png
A miss. berlin 1.JPG
tourism	 yes	Mf node.png Mf area.png	 To add tourist interest to something described by other tags.		
tourism	 user defined	Mf node.png Mf area.png	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Waterway
In all rivers, canals etc., the way should be aligned in the direction of water flow. See Waterways for an introduction to the mapping of waterways.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
natural watercourses
waterway	 river	Way	 For narrow rivers which will be rendered as a line. For larger rivers (defined as more than 12m across) see waterway=riverbank (Other languages).	Rendering-waterway-river.png	
Nau im Langenauer Ried 600x450.jpg
waterway	 riverbank	Area	 Used for larger rivers, to define an area between the opposite riverbanks. See water=river for alternative tagging.	Rendering-waterway-riverbank.png	
Dscf1891-800.jpg
waterway	 stream	Way	 A naturally-formed waterway that is too thin to be classed as a river. An active, able-bodied person should be able to jump over it if trees along it aren't too thick.	
Rendering-waterway-stream-mapnik.png
450px-Marshall-county-indiana-yellow-river.jpg
waterway	 wadi	Way	 A natural, dry (ephemeral) riverbed that contains water only during times of heavy rain or simply an intermittent stream, in semi-arid areas. Also known as a "Wash" in the deserts of America.	
Rendering-waterway-wadi-mapnik.png
NahalashanS.jpg
man made waterways
waterway	 canal	Way	 An artificial open waterway used for transportation, waterpower, or irrigation.(Other languages).		
Grand Union Canal.jpg
waterway	 drain	Way	 An artificial waterway for carrying storm water or industrial discharge.		
Example Drain.jpg
waterway	 ditch	Way	 A small to moderate depression created to channel water.		
Forest ditch.JPG
facilities
waterway	 dock	Node Area	 An 'enclosed' area of water used for building or repairing ships.		
Ship-Dock.jpg
waterway	 boatyard	NodeArea	 Boat yard - a place for constructing, repairing and storing vessels out of the water.		
Boatyards, Rhyll.jpg
barriers on waterways
waterway	 dam	Way Area	 A wall built across a river or stream to impound the water. A dam normally does not have water flowing over the top of it.		
Amagase Dam.jpg
waterway	 weir	Node Way	 A barrier built across a river, sometimes to divert water for industrial purposes. Water can still flow over the top.		
Alifakovac Miljacka.jpg
waterway	 lock_gate	Node	 To mark the position of gates at each end of a lock. Alternatively, for smaller locks use a single lock=yes node in the middle of the lock.		
JesusGreenLock-Cambridge.jpg
other features on waterways
waterway	 turning_point	Node	 A place to turn the driving direction for vessels, where the boats are longer than the river/canal is wide. Use maxlength=* to denote the maximum length of the vessel.		
waterway	 water_point	Node	 This tag is for ports/marinas where you can get large amounts of potable water.		
Some additional attributes for waterways
intermittent	 yes	Way	 Indicates that the waterway does not have a permanent flow (i.e. is sometimes/often dry).		
lock	 yes	Way (Node)	 A lock is used for moving boats between waterways at two different levels. Can tag either the section of the way between the gates (detailed) or just a single node in the waterway (less detailed).		
JesusGreenLock-Cambridge.jpg
mooring	 yes/private/no	Way	 A length of bank where boats are explicitly permitted to moor. maxstay=* should be used for timing information.		
Lamanage La Rochelle.jpg
service	 transportation/water_power/irrigation	Way	 A waterway=canal may have one (or more; separate with semicolons) uses.		
tunnel	 culvert	Way (Node)	 For a stream passing under a road use tunnel=culvert on the section of stream passing under the road (don't use this tag for open-top culverts or roads using the culvert structure as a bridge (bridge=culvert)).		
Culvert.jpg
user defined values
waterway	 user defined	Node Way	All commonly used values according to Taginfo		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Additional properties

Addresses
Used to provide postal information for the building or facility. See Addresses and addr=* for more details on usage.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
Tags for individual houses
addr:housenumber	 user defined	Node Area	 The house number (may contain letters, dashes or other characters).
Addresses describes ways to tag a single building with multiple addresses.
Please do not only tag addr:housenumber=*, but also add at least addr:street=* (or map the belonging to a street with a relation using associatedStreet relation).		
Wien Lainzer Str 8a.jpg
addr:housename	 user defined	Node Area	 The name of a house. 
This is sometimes used in some countries like England instead of (or in addition to) a house number.		
addr:street	 user defined	Node Area	 The (main) name of the respective street. 
A way with highway=* and the corresponding name should be found nearby. The belonging to a street can alternatively be represented by a associatedStreet relation. The keys addr:housenumber=* und addr:street=* in principle are the only necessary ones if there are valid border polygons. If you are not sure if it is so, just add addr:city=*, addr:postcode=* and addr:country=*. This is usually.		
Kirkland, WA - double street sign.jpg
addr:place	 user defined	Node Area	 part of address, which is not related to street, but to some territorial zone, linear object, node or some abstract object.		
addr:postcode	 user defined	Node Area	 The postal code of the building/area.		
addr:city	 user defined	Node Area	 May or may not be a clone of is_in:city=* (in some places the city in the address corresponds to the post office that serves the area rather than the actual city, if any, in which the building is located)! The name of the city as given in postal addresses of the building/area.		
Lillerod.jpg
addr:country	 user defined	Node Area	 The ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 two letter country code in upper case. 
Example: "DE" for Germany, "FR" for France, "IT" for Italy. 
Caveat: The ISO 3166-1 code for Great Britain is "GB" and not "UK".. See also:  is_in:country=*		
addr:full	 user defined	Node Area	 Use this for a full-text, often multi-line, address if you find the structured address fields unsuitable for denoting the address of this particular location. Examples: "Fifth house on the left after the village oak, Smalltown, Smallcountry" or "1200 West Sunset Boulevard Suite 110A". Beware that these strings can hardly be parsed by software.		
For countries using hamlet, subdistrict, district, province, state
addr:hamlet	 user defined	Node Area	 The hamlet of the object.		
Grosvenor Place 2 2008 06 19.jpg
addr:suburb	 user defined	Node Area	 If an address exists several times in a city. You have to add the name of the settlement. See Australian definition of suburb.	
addr:subdistrict	 user defined	Node Area	 The subdistrict of the object.	
addr:district	 user defined	Node Area	 The district of the object.	
addr:province	 user defined	Node Area	 The province of the object.		
addr:state	 user defined	Node Area	 The state of the object. For the US, uppercase two-letter postal abbreviations (AK, CA, HI, NY, TX, WY, etc.) are used.		
Tags for interpolation ways
addr:interpolation	 all/even/odd/ alphabetic	Way	 How to interpolate the house numbers belonging to the way along the respective street. 
See detailed description.		Sporilov, Púchovská, oznacení domu.jpg
addr:interpolation	 Number	Way	 Every nth house between the end nodes is represented by the interpolation way.	
addr:inclusion	 actual/estimate/potential	Way	 Optional tag to indicate the accuracy level of survey used to create the address interpolation way. 
See detailed description.	
This section is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Annotation
Providing further information about tag values for other mappers and in some cases also for users. See Annotations for more details.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
attribution	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	 Attribution to originator if required		
comment	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	 Comment. Usually a description of a changeset primarily for other mappers. See note=* for nodes, ways and relations.		
description	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	 Text that might be viewable to the end user (perhaps using a search system or a map with pop-ups)		
email	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	E-Mail address associated with an object
see also: contact=* or contact:email=*		
fax	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	Fax number associated with an object 
see also: contact=* or contact:fax=*		
fixme	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	 A description to yourself or to other mappers of a (possible) error in the map		
image	URL	Node Way Area Relation	 Reference to an image (use the source_ref=* key below when the image is referencing the source of the element)		
note	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	 A note to yourself or to other mappers.		
phone	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	Telephone number associated with an object
see also: contact=* or contact:phone=*		
source	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	 Indicates the source of some information added to OpenStreetMap.		
source	 extrapolation	Node Way Area Relation	 Extension of information from a known source		
source	 historical	Node Way Area Relation	 From out-of-copyright mapping or other historical document		
source	 image	Node Way Area Relation	 Photograph or video		
source	 knowledge	Node Way Area Relation	 Local or common knowledge		
source	 survey	Node Way Area Relation	 Track from GPS unit (usually GPX fomat) or other physical survey; suggested addition - survey:date=YYYY-MM-DD		
source	 voice	Node Way Area Relation	 Voice recordings; e.g., dictaphone		
source:name	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	 Source used to gather name information; e.g., for street names		
source:ref	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	 Reference data source; e.g., for road numbers		
source_ref	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	 To record the URI, source reference (e.g., Landsat) or other link to physical sources		
todo	User defined	Node Way Area Relation	 A text note to yourself or another mapper describing how the particular element can be improved		
url	URL	Node Way Area Relation	URL associated with an object - Use more precise key like website=*, image=* or wikipedia=* where applicable!		
website	URL	Node Way Area Relation	 Official website of an object
see also: contact=* or contact:website=*		
wikipedia	URL or article title	Node Way Area Relation	Wikipedia article associated with an object		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Name
The name tag is the primary tag used for naming a Element. See Names for more information on how to use this tag.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment
name	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 The common default name. (Note: For disputed areas, please use the name as displayed on e.g. street signs for the name tag. Put all alternatives into either localized name tags (e.g. name:tr/name:el) or the variants (e.g. loc_name/old_name/alt_name). Thank you.)
name:<lg>	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 Name in different language eg. name:fr=Londres. See: Multilingual names
alt_name	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 another name or names by which the feature is known e.g. name=Field Fare Road and alt_name=Fieldfare Road, or name=University Centre and alt_name=Grad Pad
alt_name:<lg>	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 Alternative name in different language eg. alt_name:fr=Londres. See: Multilingual names
int_name	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 International name (note: consider using language specific names instead, e.g. name:en=... - see above - International does not (necessarily) mean English)
loc_name	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 Local name
nat_name	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 National name
official_name	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 It has been created for country names but we need a clarification for other cases between "name", "int_name", "loc_name" and "official_name". Example: official_name=Principat d'Andorra (where "name" is name=Andorra)
old_name	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 Historical name
old_name:<lg>	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 Old name in different language eg. old_name:fr=Londres. See: Multilingual names
reg_name	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 Regional name
short_name	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 Common abbreviation, useful for searching (recognized by Nominatim)
sorting_name	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 name, used for correct sorting of names — This is only needed when sorting names cannot be based only on their orthography (using the Unicode Collation Algorithm with collation tables tailored by language and script, or when sorted lists of names are including names written in multiple languages and/or scripts) but requires ignoring some parts such as:
ignoring leading articles, or
lowering the relative importance of first names cited before a last name,
ignoring the generic part of a street name when it occurs before the specific name (e.g. in French with "rue", "boulevard", "place", etc.),
all of them being ignored at the primary sort level and not easily inferable by a preprocessing algorithm.

This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Properties
Used to give additional information of a general nature about another element.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
area	 yes	Area	 Means a feature that is normally linear is an area. You should not add this to features that are already defined as an area type.		
bridge	 yes / aqueduct / viaduct / swing / ...	Way Node	 A bridge, use together with the layer tag. Value "yes" is generic, or you can specialize.	Mapping-Features-Road-Bridge.png	Bridge-yes.jpg
covered	 yes	NodeWayArea	 Used to denote that a node, way or area is covered by another entity (or in some cases the ground), when the use of layers is inappropriate, or additional clarification is needed.	 Various, depending on the covered entity	Covered.jpg
crossing	 no / traffic_signals / uncontrolled	Node			
cutting	 yes	Way	 A cut in the land to carry a road or tram. Mostly in hilly landscape. Source		Road cut.jpg
disused	 yes	Node Way Area	 For features that are useful for navigation, yet are unused. See abandoned=* if infrastructure is removed.		
drive_through	 yes / no	Node Area	 Used to indicate if a pharmacy, bank, atm, or fast_food, or post_box offers drive_thru service.		
drive_in	 yes / no	Node Area	 Used to indicate if a cinema is a drive-in cinema or a restaurant offers drive-in service. drive_in is different than drive_thru		
ele	 Number	Node Area	 Elevation (also known as altitude or height) above mean sea level in metre, based on geoid model EGM 96 which is used by WGS 84 (GPS). (see also Altitude)		
embankment	 yes	Way	 A raised bank to carry a road, railway, or canal across a low-lying or wet area. Source	Mapping-Features-Road-Embankment.png	Embankment.jpg
end_date	 Date	Way	 Date feature was removed		
est_width	 Number	Way	 A rough guess of the width of way in metres		
internet_access	 public/service/terminal/wired/wlan/	Node  Area	 This tag is for indication that a map entity such as a building, a shop, restaurant, etc. offers internet access to the public, either as a paid service or even for free.		
Internet-Sign.jpg
layer	 -5 to 5	Way	 0: ground (default); -1..-5:under ground layer; 1..5 (not +1):above ground layer
This is intended to indicate actual physical separation, shouldn't be used just to influence rendering order.		
narrow	 yes	Way	 Relative indication that a way (waterway, highway, cycleway) gets narrower.		
Narrow-sign.jpg
opening_hours	 24/7 or mo md hh:mm-hh:mm. (read described syntax)	Node Way Area	 opening_hours describes when something is open.	
Pharmacy dispencing 24.png
operator	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 The operator tag can be used to name a company or corporation who's responsible for a certain object or who operates it.		
start_date	 Date	Node Way AreaRelation	 Date feature was created		
TMC:LocationCode	 see description	Way Node Relation	 An identifier in electronic traffic-messages.		
tunnel	 yes	Way	 A tunnel, use together with the layer tag.	Mapping-Features-Road-Tunnel.png	Tunnel.jpg
toilets:wheelchair	 yes / no	Node Area	 States if a location has a wheelchair accessible toilet or not.		
wheelchair	 yes / no / limited	Node Way Area	 Indicates if a place is accessible using a wheelchair.		
Standard rollstuhl.jpg
width	 Number	Way	 Width of way in metres		
wood	 coniferous / deciduous / mixed	Node Area	 Applies to landuse=forest and natural=wood detailing the sort of trees found within each landuse. Makes most sense when applied to areas.		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
References
Used to added reference information for an element.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
iata	 User Defined	Node Way Area	IATA International airport codes		
icao	 User Defined	Node Way Area	ICAO International airport codes		
int_ref	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 International reference (eg E 30)		
lcn_ref	 User Defined	Way	 The number of the local cycle network		
loc_ref	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 Local reference		
nat_ref	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 National reference		
ncn_ref	 User Defined	Way	 The number reference (eg 54) of a National Cycle Network route.		
old_ref	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 Historical reference		
rcn_ref	 User Defined	Way	 The number of the regional cycle network.		
ref	 User Defined	Node Way Area Relation	 The common default reference (eg M25, in Germany always with space eg A 5)		
reg_ref	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 Regional reference		
source_ref	 User Defined	Node Way Area	 To record the URI, source reference (eg Landsat) or other link to physical sources.		
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Restrictions
Used to define restrictions that apply to the associated element. For more information see Restrictions.
Key	 Value	 Element	 Comment	 Rendering	 Photo
Vehicle types
access	 agricultural / delivery / designated / destination / forestry / no / official / permissive / private / unknown / yes	Way	 General access permission.
agricultural - Only for agricultural traffic
delivery - Only when delivering to the element.
designated - A preferred or designated route for a specific vehicle type or types. Not compulsory but often marked by a traffic sign
destination - Used for ways in designated local traffic areas, where traffic should only enter if its destination is within the area
forestry - Only for forestry traffic
no - No access for the general public. Consider using another tag indicating who can use the element
official - The way is dedicated to a specific mode of travel by law. Usually marked by traffic signs and exclusive. In Germany use is also compulsory. clarification needed
permissive - Open to general traffic until such time as the owner revokes the permission which they are legally allowed to do at any time in the future.
private - Only with permission of the owner on an individual basis
unknown - No information provided on access. This is the default value for most features with a general assumption that access is allowed for all purposes
yes - The public has an official, legal right of access, i.e. it's a right of way (default value)
agricultural	 yes / no	Way	 Access permission for agricultural vehicles, e.g. tractors.		
Agricultural.png
atv	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way	 Access restricted to wheeled vehicles 1.27m (50 inches) or less in width		
bdouble	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	WayArea	 Access permission for Wikipedia Road_train#B-double on Wikipedia, A B-double (B-Train) consists of a prime mover towing a specialised trailer (known as a "lead" or "A"-trailer) that has a fifth-wheel mounted on the rear towing another semi-trailer, resulting in two articulation points.		
bicycle	 yes / designated / official / private / permissive / dismount / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way	 Access permission for bicycles. For values see above. Usage of bicycle=dismount and bicycle=no will vary in different countries. If according to local traffic rules a bicycle is no longer seen as a bicycle when there's no one driving it, then there's no need for using bicycle=dismount. If the local legislation still sees an undriven bicycle as a bicycle then you may need to use both bicycle=dismount and bicycle=no.		
Bicycle.png
boat	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way			
emergency	 yes	Way	 Access permission for emergency motor vehicles; e.g., ambulance, fire truck, police car		
foot	 yes / designated / official / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way	 Access permission for pedestrians. For values see above		
Foot.png
forestry	 yes / no	Way	 Access permission for forestry vehicles, e.g. tractors.		
goods	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way	 Access permission for light commercial vehicles (LCV) or goods vehicles of category N1 with a maximum allowed mass of up to 3.5 tonnes. In the USA, combined weight 26,000 lbs or less. For values see above.		
Hgv.png
hazmat	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way	 Access permission for vehicles carrying hazardous materials. For values see above		
hgv	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way	 Access permission for Heavy Goods Vehicles (HGV) (UK), e.g. for goods vehicles of category N2 and N3 (trucks, lorries) with a maximum allowed mass over 3.5 tonnes. In the USA, combined weight 26,001 lbs or greater. For values see above		
Hgv.png
horse	 yes / designated / official / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way	 Access permission for horse riders. For values see above		
Horse.png
inline_skates	 yes / no	WayNodeArea	 Access permission for Inline Skates		
lhv	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way	 Access permission for Wikipedia Longer_Heavier_Vehicle on Wikipedia, e.g. for vehicles with 6 axles and can carry up to 44 metric tons		
motorboat	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry /unknown / no	Way			
motorcar	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way	 Access permission for (motor) cars. For values see above		
Car.png
motorcycle	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way	 Access permission for motorcycles. For values see above		
Motorcycle.png
motor_vehicle	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way	 Access permission for any motorized vehicle. For values see above		
psv	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry /unknown / no	Way	 Access permission for Public Service Vehicles (UK), e.g. buses and coaches. See above		
Bus.png
roadtrain	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	WayArea	 Access permission for Wikipedia Road_train on Wikipedia, A road train consists of a relatively conventional tractor unit, but instead of pulling one trailer or semi-trailer, the road train pulls two or more of them.		
tank	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry /unknown / no	WayArea	 Access permission for (military) tanks		
vehicle	 yes / designated / private / permissive / destination / delivery / agricultural / forestry / unknown / no	Way	 Access permission for all vehicles. For values see above		
Access.png
4wd_only	 yes	Way	 A road signed as only suitable for 4WD (offroad) vehicles		
Other
charge	 Number	Node	 Amount of toll or fee		
disused	 yes	Node Way Area	 For features that are useful for navigation, yet are unused or abandoned.		
maxheight	Height	Way	 height limit - units other than metres should be explicit		
Maxheight.png
Maxheight photo.JPG
maxlength	Length	Way	 length limit - units other than metres should be explicit		
Maxlength.png
maxspeed	Speed	Way	 Maximum speed - units other than km/h should be explicit		
Maxspeed.png
maxstay	 Number	Way	 Maximum stay, in units given (hour/hours/day/days)		
maxweight	Weight	Way	 Weight limit - units other than tonnes should be explicit		
Maxweight.png
maxwidth	Width	Way	 width limit - units other than metres should be explicit		
Maxwidth.png
minspeed	Speed	Way	 Minimum speed - units other than km/h should be explicit		
Minspeed.svg
noexit	 yes	Node Way	 A dead end road/cul de sac with only one access road		
Noexit.png
oneway	 yes / no / -1	Way	
oneway=yes for traffic direction same as the sequence of nodes of the way (maplint will highlight "true" and "1", so they can be updated to "yes").
oneway=no for bidirectional traffic (maplint will highlight "false" and "0", so they can be updated to "no").
oneway=-1 for traffic direction opposite to the sequence of nodes of the way (if the way cannot be reversed).
Some road types are assumed to be one-way (e.g. highway=motorway), others are assumed to be two-way (most others). The direction of the sequence of nodes of a way is indicated by sequential order of nodes within the way. 
Hint: When using the editor JOSM, enable 'arrows'!).

The maplint highlighting will help with updating of the tags which will allow simplification of style sheets to prevent unintentional rendering errors creeping in. See Talk:Key:oneway.

OneWaySign.png
toll:key	 yes	Node	 Toll or fee must be paid to access way, see also barrier=toll_booth		
traffic_sign	 city_limit	Node	 Start/end sign of city limits, in most (all?) countries implies a specific "city maxspeed".		Wilster.jpg
This table is a wiki template with a default description in English. Editable here.
Categories: Map Features templateTagValue enabledProposals adminReferenceTagging guidelinesFeaturesSemantics
Navigation menu
EnglishCreate accountLog inPageDiscussionReadView sourceView history
Search
Main Page
The map
Map Features
Contributors
Help
Blogs
Shop
Donations
Recent changes
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
Cite this page
This page was last modified on 11 January 2014, at 17:01.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.0 license unless otherwise noted.
Privacy policyAbout OpenStreetMap WikiDisclaimersCreative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.0 license Powered by MediaWiki